ad sale boost time warner profit

quarterli profit at us media giant timewarn jump 76% to $1.13bn (£600m) for the three month to decemb, from $639m year-earlier.

the firm, which is now on of the biggest investor in googl, benefit from sale of high-speed internet connect and higher advert sale. timewarn said fourth quarter sale rose 2% to $11.1bn from $10.9bn. it profit were buoi by on-off gain which offset a profit dip at warner bro, and less user for aol.

time warner said on fridai that it now own 8% of search-engin googl. but it own internet busi, aol, had ha mix fortun. it lost 464,000 subscrib in the fourth quarter profit were lower than in the preced three quarter. howev, the compani said aol's underli profit befor except item rose 8% on the back of stronger internet advertis revenu. it hope to increas subscrib by offer the onlin servic free to timewarn internet custom and will try to sign up aol's exist custom for high-speed broadband. timewarn also ha to restat 2000 and 2003 result follow a probe by the us secur exchang commiss (sec), which is close to conclud.

time warner's fourth quarter profit were slightli better than analyst' expect. but it film divis saw profit slump 27% to $284m, help by box-offic flop alexand and catwoman, a sharp contrast to year-earlier, when the third and final film in the lord of the ring trilogi boost result. for the full-year, timewarn post a profit of $3.36bn, up 27% from it 2003 perform, while revenu grew 6.4% to $42.09bn. "our financi perform wa strong, meet or exceed all of our full-year object and greatli enhanc our flexibl," chairman and chief execut richard parson said. for 2005, timewarn is project oper earn growth of around 5%, and also expect higher revenu and wider profit margin.

timewarn is to restat it account as part of effort to resolv an inquiri into aol by us market regul. it ha alreadi offer to pai $300m to settl charg, in a deal that is under review by the sec. the compani said it wa unabl to estim the amount it need to set asid for legal reserv, which it previous set at $500m. it intend to adjust the wai it account for a deal with german music publish bertelsmann's purchas of a stake in aol europ, which it had report as advertis revenu. it will now book the sale of it stake in aol europ as a loss on the valu of that stake.
