dollar gain on greenspan speech

the dollar ha hit it highest level against the euro in almost three month after the feder reserv head said the us trade deficit is set to stabilis.

and alan greenspan highlight the us govern's willing to curb spend and rise household save as factor which mai help to reduc it. in late trade in new york, the dollar reach $1.2871 against the euro, from $1.2974 on thursdai. market concern about the deficit ha hit the greenback in recent month. on fridai, feder reserv chairman mr greenspan's speech in london ahead of the meet of g7 financ minist sent the dollar higher after it had earlier tumbl on the back of wors-than-expect us job data. "i think the chairman's take a much more sanguin view on the current account deficit than he's taken for some time," said robert sinch, head of currenc strategi at bank of america in new york. "he's take a longer-term view, lai out a set of condit under which the current account deficit can improv thi year and next."

worri about the deficit concern about china do, howev, remain. china's currenc remain peg to the dollar and the us currenc's sharp fall in recent month have therefor made chines export price highli competit. but call for a shift in beij's polici have fallen on deaf ear, despit recent comment in a major chines newspap that the "time is ripe" for a loosen of the peg. the g7 meet is thought unlik to produc ani meaning movement in chines polici. in the meantim, the us feder reserv's decis on 2 februari to boost interest rate by a quarter of a point - the sixth such move in as mani month - ha open up a differenti with european rate. the half-point window, some believ, could be enough to keep us asset look more attract, and could help prop up the dollar. the recent fall have partli been the result of big budget deficit, as well as the us's yawn current account gap, both of which need to be fund by the bui of us bond and asset by foreign firm and govern. the white hous will announc it budget on mondai, and mani comment believ the deficit will remain at close to half a trillion dollar.
