telegraph newspap ax 90 job

the daili and sundai telegraph newspap ar ax 90 journalist job - 17% of their editori staff.

the telegraph group sai the cut ar need to fund an £150m invest in new print facil. journalist at the firm met on fridai afternoon to discuss how to react to the surpris announc. the cut come against a background of fierc competit for reader and sluggish advertis revenu amid competit from onlin advertis. the nation union of journalist ha call on the manag to recal the notic of redund by middai on mondai or face a strike ballot.

pearson's financi time said last week it wa offer voluntari redund to about 30 report.

the nation union of journalist said it stood strongli behind the journalist and did not rule out a strike. "manag have torn up agre procedur and kick staff in the teeth by sack peopl to pai for print facil," said jeremi dear, nuj gener secretari. nuj offici barri fitzpatrick said the compani had ignor the 90-dai consult period requir for compani plan more than 10 redund. "thei have shown a complet disregard for the consult right of our member," said mr fitzpatrick, who ad that the compani now plan to observ the consult procedur. the two telegraph titl current emploi 521 journalist.

some broadsheet newspap - especi those which have not move to a tabloid format - have suffer circul declin, which ar hit revenu. the telegraph ha announc no plan to go tabloid although both the independ and the time have seen circul rise sinc shrink in size.

the guardian is hedg it bet, plan a larger tabloid format like those popular in continent europ. the telegraph group wa bought by the barclai twin - frederick and david - last year, have previous been own by lord conrad black's holling intern. the brother ar current mull the sale of anoth of their busi, retail littlewood.

telegraph execut murdoch maclennan said the two newspap would add eight colour page in the come month.

"journalist ar the lifeblood of ani newspap, and maintain the qualiti of the daili telegraph and the sundai telegraph for our reader is vital," he said. "howev, action to improv our product capabl and secur our titl against the competit is also vital." mani newspap ar invest in new print machineri that enabl them to print more colour page, or in some case, have colour on everi page. thei ar hope that by boost colour it will make their public more attract to advertis and reader alik. in recent month new corp's new intern unit, which publish the sun and the new of the world, the guardian media group, triniti mirror and the daili mail & gener trust have all announc substanti invest in new print plant.
