air passeng win new eu right

air passeng who ar unabl to board their flight becaus of overbook, cancel or flight delai can now demand greater compens.

new eu rule set compens at between 250 euro (£173) and 600 euro, depend on the length of the flight. the new rule will appli to all schedul and charter flight, includ budget airlin. airlin have attack the legisl sai thei could be forc to push price higher to cover the extra cost. the european commiss is face two legal challeng - on from the european low-fare airlin associ (elaa) and the other from the intern air transport associ (iata), which ha attack the packag as a "bad piec of legisl". previous, passeng could claim between 150 euro and 300 euro if thei had been stop from board.

howev, onli schedul flight oper were oblig to offer compens in case of overbook and thei did not have to offer compens for flight cancel.

the eu decid to increas passeng compens in a bid to deter airlin from deliber overbook flight. overbook can often lead to 'bump' - when a passeng is move to a later flight. when thi happen against a passeng's will, airlin will now have to offer compens. in addit, if a flight is cancel or delai for more than two hour through the fault of the airlin, all passeng must be paid compens.

howev, airlin do not have to offer compens if flight ar cancel or delai due to "extraordinari circumst". airlin fear that "extraordinari circumst" mai not includ bad weather, secur alert or strike - event which ar outsid of their control. all eu-base airlin and oper of flight which take off from the eu will have to adher to the new compens regim which came into forc on thursdai. low-cost airlin have criticis the new compens level, argu that the pai-out could be worth more than the ticket. "it's a preposter piec of legisl, we among all airlin ar fight thi," ryanair deputi chief execut michael cawlei told radio 4's todai programm.

the european region airlin associ (eraa) claim that neither airlin nor consum were consult over the chang. andi clark, eraa director of air transport, said that the ec advic mislead custom as it lead them to believ that airlin could be liabl for payout if flight ar delai becaus of bad weather.

ec spokeswoman marja quillinan-meiland conced there were "grei area" but said "these ar not as big as the airlin ar make out". in case of disput, nation enforc bodi would decid whether the passeng had a case, she said. new technolog mean it is easier for airlin to take off and land in bad weather, she ad. the eraa's mr clark also warn that while airlin would compli with the new rule, the extra cost would be pass onto passeng. "we reckon it's go to cost european air passeng - not the airlin, the airlin have no monei, it ha to be paid by passeng - 1.5bn euro, that's over £1bn a year load onto european passeng," mr clark said. "that's basic a transfer of monei from passeng whose journei ar not disrupt to passeng whose journei ar disrupt."

on wednesdai, jacqu barrot, vice presid of the european commiss and also commission for transport, said that the chang were necessari. "the boom in air travel need to be accompani by proper protect of passeng' right." "thi is a concret exampl of how the union benefit peopl's daili live," he ad. the ec ha launch an inform campaign in airport and travel agenc to inform airlin passeng of their new right.
