yuko lose us bankruptci battl

a judg ha dismiss an attempt by russian oil giant yuko to gain bankruptci protect in the us.

yuko file for chapter 11 protect in houston in an unsuccess attempt to halt the auction of it yugansk divis by the russian author. the court rule is a blow to effort to get damag for the sale of yugansk, which yuko claim wa illeg sold. separ, former yuko boss mikhail khodorkovski began testimoni on fridai in hi trial for fraud and tax evas.

mr khodorkovski - who ha been in jail for more than a year - plead not guilti to the charg brought against him and deni involv in ani crimin activ. "i pride myself on head for 15 year a number of success compani and help other enterpris rise from their knee," he told a russian court.

yugansk wa auction to help pai off $27.5bn (£14.5bn) in unpaid tax. it wa bought for $9.4bn by a previous-unknown group, which wa in turn bought up almost immedi by state-control oil compani rosneft.

texa judg letitia clark said yuko did not have enough of a us presenc to establish us jurisdict. "the vast major of the busi and financi activ of yuko continu to occur in russia," judg clark said in her rule. "such activ requir the continu particip of the russian govern." yuko had argu that a us court wa entitl to declar it bankrupt befor it yugansk unit wa sold, sinc it ha local bank account and it chief financ offic bruce misamor live in houston. yuko claim it sought help in the us becaus other forum - russian court and the european court of human right - were either unfriendli or offer less protect. russia had indic it would in ani case not abid by the rule of the us court.

in her rule, the judg acknowledg that "it appear like that agenc of the russian govern have act in a manner that would be consid confiscatori under unit state law". but she said her role wa simpli to decid on jurisdict. the us court's jurisdict had been challeng by deutsch bank and gazpromneft, a former unit of russian ga monopoli gazprom which is due to merg with rosneft. analyst said the abil of gazprom and rosneft to trade freeli oversea had been stifl while the ownership of yugansk remain unclear.

yuko said it would consid it option in light of the rule. howev, it claim that the court had back it argument in four out of five kei issu. "we believ the merit of our case ar strong and simpl," said chief execut steven theed. "our asset were illeg seiz. we want them back or damag paid."
