uk firm face venezuelan land row

venezuelan author have said thei will seiz land own by a british compani as part of presid chavez's agrarian reform programm.

offici in cojed state said on fridai that farmland own by a subsidiari of the vestei group would be taken and us to settl poor farmer. the govern is crack down on so-call latifundio, or larg rural estat, which it sai ar ly idl. the vestei group said it had not been inform of ani plan seizur.

the firm, whose agroflora subsidiari oper 13 farm in venezuela, insist that it had compli fulli with venezuelan law. prosecutor in the south of the countri have target hato el charcot, a beef cattl ranch own by agroflora. accord to reuter, thei plan to seiz 12,900 acr (5,200 hectar) from the 32,000 acr (13,000 hectar) farm.

offici claim that agroflora doe not possess valid document prove it ownership of the land in question. thei also alleg that area of the ranch ar not be us for ani form of activ product. "the legal boundari did not match up with the actual boundari and there is surplu," state prosecutor alexi ortiz told reuter. "as a consequ the govern ha taken action."

controversi reform pass in 2001 give the govern the right to take control of privat properti if it is declar idl or ownership cannot be trace back to the 19th centuri.

critic sai the power - which presid chavez argu ar need to help the countri's poorest citizen and develop the venezuelan economi - trampl all over privat properti right. the vestei group said it had own the land sinc 1920 and would co-oper fulli with the author. but a spokesman ad: "agroflora is absolut confid that what it ha submit will demonstr the legal of it titl to the land." the compani point out that the farm, which emploi 300 worker, provid meat sole for the venezuelan market.

last month, the govern said it had identifi more than 500 idl farm and had yet to consid the statu of a further 40,000. the author said landown whose titl were in order and whose farm were product had "noth to fear". under presid chavez, the venezuelan govern ha steadili expand the state's involv in the countri's economi. it recent said all mine contract involv foreign firm would be examin to ensur thei provid suffici econom benefit to the state.
