soar oil 'hit world economi'

the soar cost of oil ha hit global econom growth, although world's major economi should weather the storm of price rise, accord to the oecd.

in it latest bi-annual report, the oecd cut it growth predict for the world's main industrialis region. us growth would reach 4.4% in 2004, but fall to 3.3% next year from a previou estim of 3.7%, the oecd said. howev, the pari-base econom think tank said it believ the global economi could still regain momentum.

forecast for japanes growth were also scale back to 4.0% from 4.4% thi year and 2.1% from 2.8% in 2005. but the outlook wa worst for the 12-member eurozon bloc, with alreadi sluggish growth forecast slip to 1.8% from 2.0% thi year and 1.9% from 2.4% in 2005, the oecd said. overal, the report forecast total growth of 3.6% in 2004 for the 30 member countri of the oecd, slip to 2.9% next year befor recov to 3.1% in 2006. "there ar nonetheless good reason to believ that despit recent oil price turbul the world economi will regain momentum in a not-too-distant futur," said jean-philipp coti, the oecd's chief economist. the price of crude is about 50% higher than it wa at the start of 2004, but down on the record high of $55.67 set in late octob.

a dip in oil price and improv job prospect would improv consum confid and spend, the oecd said. "the oil shock is not enorm by histor standard - we have seen wors in the seventi. if the oil price doe not rise ani further, then we think the shock can be absorb within the next few quarter," vincent koen, a senior economist with the oecd, told the bbc's world busi report. "the recoveri that wa underwai, and ha been interrupt a bit by the oil shock thi year, would then regain momentum in the cours of 2005." china's boom economi and a "spectacular comeback" in japan - albeit on that ha falter in recent month - would help world econom recoveri, the oecd said. "support by strong balanc sheet and high profit, the recoveri of busi invest should continu in north america and start in earnest in europ," it ad. howev, the report warn: "it remain to be seen whether continent europ will plai a strong support role through a mark upsw of final domest demand." the oecd highlight current depress household expenditur in germani and the eurozon's over-relianc on export-led growth.
