japanes mogul arrest for fraud

on of japan's best-known businessmen wa arrest on thursdai on charg of falsifi sharehold inform and sell share base on the fals data.

yoshiaki tsutsumi wa onc rank as the world's richest man and ran a busi span hotel, railwai, construct and a basebal team. hi is the latest in a seri of arrest of top execut in japan over busi scandal. he wa taken awai in a van outsid on of hi princ hotel in tokyo.

there wa a time when mr tsutsumi seem untouch. inherit a larg properti busi from hi father in the 1960s, he becam on of japan's most power industrialist, with close connect to mani of the countri's lead politician. he us hi wealth and influenc to bring the winter olymp game to nagano in 1998. but last year, he wa forc to resign from all the post he held in hi busi empir, after be accus of falsifi the share-ownership structur of seibu railwai, on of hi compani. under japanes stock market rule, no list compani can be more than 80% own by it 10 largest sharehold. now mr tsutsumi face crimin charg and the possibl of a prison sentenc becaus he made it look as if the 10 biggest sharehold own less than thi amount. seibu railwai ha been delist from the stock exchang, it share valu ha plung and it is the target of a takeov bid.

mr tsutsumi's fall from grace follow the arrest of sever other top execut in japan as the author try to curb the murki busi practic which were onc widespread in japanes compani. hi determin to stai at the top at all cost mai have had it root in hi childhood. the illegitim third son of a rich father, who made hi monei bui up properti as japan rebuilt after world war ii, he ha describ the demand hi father made. "i felt enorm pressur when i dine with him and it wa noth but pain," tsutsumi told a weekli magazin in 1987. "he scold me for pour too much soi sauc or told me fruit wa not for children. he didn't let me us the silk futon, sai it's a luxuri." there have been corpor govern issu at some other japanes compani too. last year, twelv manag from mitsubishi motor were charg with cover up safeti defect in their vehicl and three execut from japan's troubl ufj bank were charg with conceal the extent of the bank's bad loan.
