japan economi slide to recess

the japanes economi ha offici gone back into recess for the fourth time in a decad.

gross domest product fell by 0.1% in the last three month of 2004. the fall reflect weak export and a slowdown in consum spend, and follow similar fall in gdp in the two previou quarter. the tokyo stock market fell after the figur were announc, but rose again on a widespread percept that the economi will recov later thi year. on wednesdai, the govern revis growth figur from earlier in 2004 which, when take into account perform in the most recent period, effect tip japan into recess.

a previou estim of 0.1% growth between juli and septemb wa downgrad to a 0.3% declin. a recess is commonli defin as two consecut quarter of neg growth, although the japanes govern take other factor into account when judg the statu of it economi.

figur releas by the govern's cabinet offic show that gdp, on an annualis basi, fell 0.5% in the last three month of 2004. howev, politician remain upbeat about prospect for an econom boost later in the year. "the economi ha some soft patch but if you look at the bigger pictur, it is in a recoveri stage," said econom and fiscal polici minist heizo takenaka. gross domest product measur the overal valu of good and servic produc in a countri. "the economi must be assess comprehens and we cannot look at gdp alon," mr takenaka stress.

minist point to the fact that consum spend had been depress by on-off factor such as the unseason mild winter. analyst said the figur were disappoint but argu that japan's largest compani had been record healthi profit and capit spend wa on the rise. japan's economi grew 2.6% overal last year - fuell by a strong perform in the first few month - and is forecast to see growth of 2.1% in 2005. howev, the economi's fragil recoveri remain depend on an upturn in consum spend, a fall in the valu of the yen and an improv in global economi. "the result came in at the lower end of expect but we shouldn't be too pessimist about the current state and the outlook for the economi," said naoki iizuka, senior economist at the dai-ichi life research institut. japan's economi ha seen stretch of moder growth over the past decad but ha period slip back into recess.
