itali to get econom action plan

italian prime minist silvio berlusconi will unveil plan aim at kickstart the countri's sputter economi on thursdai night in rome.

he will present an "action plan for the develop of itali" in a meet with industrialist and trade union leader. mr berlusconi is expect to tabl reform aim at boost research and develop (r&d) spend, and the competit of small firm. also in focu will be bankruptci law and the slow pace of the legal system. the prime minist is schedul to start the meet at 1830 gmt.

the govern ha been accus of underfund r&d, make it harder for itali to compet with other european nation and lead to a "brain-drain" of the countri's brightest talent. analyst sai that hire and fire staff is still too difficult and expens, hamper the develop of small- and medium-size busi. as a result, thei sai, itali's corpor landscap is fill with numer smaller compani that ar often reluct to becom bigger becaus of all the extra hassl that would accompani the run of a larger firm. at the same time, bankruptci law make it difficult for fail compani director to set up new busi and emerg from their debt, a situat that is hamper itali's entrepreneuri spirit.

the govern sai that it ha set about tackl the problem, ad that get growth go wa the respons of all of itali's 60 million popul. accord to il sole 24 or, itali's busi newspap, the govern will focu on "open up market, infrastructur, research, make more incent avail, bankruptci law, the slow pace of the justic system".

mr berlusconi ha previous promis to cut tax by 6.5bn euro ($8.6bn; £4.5bn) thi year in an effort to get peopl and compani to spend. he ha also promis to cap spend on transport, educ and health so as to trim the balloon budget deficit. itali plan to rais as much as 25bn euro from privatis in 2005, includ a partial flotat of the post offic and util enel. critic argu that these move do not go far enough and could make itali's problem wors. limit govern spend will lead to job loss, thei counter, while the incom tax cut will have a neglig effect on sentiment and ultim favour the wealthi.

the countri ha been on of the eurozon's worst econom perform in recent year. growth wa 1.1% in 2004, up from just 0.3% in 2003 and 0.4% in 2002 - an improv but still a long wai from ideal. at the same time, busi and consum confid ha dip and analyst have rais concern that what littl spend there is stem from italian dip into their save account or us credit card. without a pick up in nation growth, thei sai, the monei could eventu run out, bring itali's economi to a judder halt. consum spend account for about two-third of itali's economi.
