economi 'stronger than forecast'

the uk economi probabl grew at a faster rate in the third quarter than the 0.4% report, accord to bank of england deputi governor rachel lomax.

privat sector busi survei suggest a stronger economi than offici estim, ms lomax said. other survei collect show a rapid slowdown in uk hous price growth, she point out. thi mean that despit a strong econom growth, base rate will probabl stai on hold at 4.75%. offici data come from the offic for nation statist (on). though reliabl, on data take longer to publish, so now the boe is call for faster deliveri of data so it can make more effect polici decis. "recent work by the bank ha shown that privat sector survei add valu, even when preliminari on estim ar avail," ms lomax said in a speech to the north wale busi club.

the on is due to publish it second estim of third quarter growth on fridai. "the mpc judg that overal growth wa a littl higher in the third quarter than the offici data current indic," ms lomax said. the bank said success monetari polici depend on have good inform. rachel lomax cite the late 1980s as an exampl of a time when weak econom figur were publish, but substanti revis upward year later.

"the statist fog surround the true state of the economi ha prove a particularli potent breed ground for polici error in the past," she said. improv the qualiti of nation statist is the singl the best wai of make sure the monetari polici committe (mpc) make the right decis, she said. the bank of england is work in tandem with the on to improv the qualiti and speed of deliveri of data. her remark follow critic from the hous of lord econom affair committe, which said the mpc had held interest rate too high given that inflat wa wai below the 2% target.

a slowdown in the hous market and thi year's surg in oil price ha made econom forecast all the more tricki, lead to a more uncertain outlook. "thi year rise oil price and a signific slowdown in the hous market have awoken bad memori of the 1970s and 1980s," ms lomax said. "the mpc will be do well if it can achiev the same stabil over the next decad as we have enjoi over the past 10 year." decis on interest rate ar made after the mpc gather togeth the rang of indic avail everi month. the clearest signal come when all indic ar point the same direct, ms lomax intim. "in econom assess, there is safeti in number."
