india seek to boost construct

india ha clear a propos allow up to 100% foreign direct invest in it construct sector.

kamal nath, commerc and industri minist, announc the decis in delhi on thursdai follow a cabinet meet. analyst sai improv india's infrastructur will boost foreign invest in other sector too. the indian govern's decis ha spread good cheer in the construct sector, accord to some indian firm.

a spokesman for dlf builder, dr vancheshwar, told the bbc thi will mean "better offer" for consum as well as builder. he said the firm will benefit from world class "strateg partnership, design expertis and technolog, while consum will have better choic."

the govern propos state that foreign invest of up to 100% will be allow on the 'automat rout' in the construct sector, on project includ hous, hotel, resort, hospit and educ establish. the automat rout mean that construct compani need onli get on set of offici approv and do not need to gain clearanc from the foreign invest promot board, which can be bureaucrat. the govern hope it new polici will creat employ for construct worker, and benefit steel and brick-make industri.

mr nath also announc plan to allow foreign investor to develop a smaller area of ani land thei acquir. "foreign investor can enter ani construct develop area, be it to build resort, township or commerci premis but thei will have to construct at least 50,000 squar meter (538,000 squar feet) within a specif timefram," said mr nath, without specifi the timefram. previous foreign investor had to develop a much larger area, discourag some from enter the indian market. thi measur is design to discourag foreign investor from bui and sell land specul, without develop it. anshuman magazin, manag director, of cb richard elli - an intern real estat compani - told the bbc thi wa "a big posit step."

howev, chittabrata majumdar, gener secretari of the centr of indian trade union (citu), said allow fdi in the countri is compromis india's own "self relianc". he said, "no countri can develop on the basi of foreign invest alon." mr majumdar also said an assess should be made as to whether foreign invest is inde benefici to the countri - in term of employ and monei gener - or just anoth wai of intern compani fill their deep pocket.
