china had role in yuko split-up

china lent russia $6bn (£3.2bn) to help the russian govern renationalis the kei yuganskneftega unit of oil group yuko, it ha been reveal.

the kremlin said on tuesdai that the $6bn which russian state bank veb lent state-own rosneft to help bui yugansk in turn came from chines bank. the revel came as the russian govern said rosneft had sign a long-term oil suppli deal with china. the deal see rosneft receiv $6bn in credit from china's cnpc.

accord to russian newspap vedomosti, these credit would be us to pai off the loan rosneft receiv to financ the purchas of yugansk. report said cnpc had been offer 20% of yugansk in return for provid financ but the compani opt for a long-term oil suppli deal instead. analyst said on factor that might have influenc the chines decis wa the possibl of litig from yuko, yugansk's former owner, if cnpc had becom a sharehold. rosneft and veb declin to comment. "the two compani [rosneft and cnpc] have agre on the pre-payment for long-term deliveri," said russian oil offici sergei oganesyan. "there is noth unusu that the pre-payment is for five to six year."

the announc help to explain how rosneft, a medium-size, indebt, and rel unknown firm, wa abl to financ it surpris purchas of yugansk. yugansk wa sold for $9.3bn in an auction last year to help yuko pai off part of a $27bn bill in unpaid tax and fine.

the embattl russian oil giant had previous file for bankruptci protect in a us court in an attempt to prevent the forc sale of it main product arm. but yugansk wa sold to a littl known shell compani which in turn wa bought by rosneft. yuko claim it downfal wa punish for the polit ambit of it founder mikhail khodorkovski. onc the countri's richest man, mr khodorkovski is on trial for fraud and tax evas.

the deal between rosneft and cnpc is seen as part of china's desir to secur long-term oil suppli to feed it boom economi. china's thirst for product such as crude oil, copper and steel ha help push global commod price to record level. "clearli the chines ar try to get some leverag [in russia]," said dmitri lukashov, an analyst at brokerag aton. "thei understand properti right in russia ar not the most import right, and thei ar more interest in guarante suppli." "if the price of oil is fix under the deal, which is unlik, it could be veri profit for the chines," mr lukashov continu. "and rosneft is in desper need of cash, so it's a good deal for them too."
