yuko accus of ly to court

russian oil firm yuko li to a us court in an attempt to stop the russian govern sell off it kei product unit, the court ha heard.

the unit, yugansk, wa sold to pai off a $27.5bn (£14.5bn) back tax bill. yuko argu that sinc it had a us subsidiari and local bank account, the us court could declar it bankrupt and stop the auction of yugansk. but deutsch bank - itself a target of a yuko lawsuit - said document had been backdat to strengthen the case.

deutsch bank's evid came on the first dai of a two-dai hear in houston. it lawyer, hugh rai, told the court that yuko had claim it had transfer $27m into two texa bank account open by it new us subsidiari. by do so, he said, the firm had intend to reinforc it us presenc - and thu it chanc of get it case heard in us court. but he said that the paper document the transact were not drawn up till week after yuko made it bankruptci applic on 14 decemb, and then backdat.

yuko chief financi offic bruce misamor, who had move to the us in earli decemb to set up yuko usa, acknowledg the point. he said the discrep wa onli in the paperwork, but that monei had inde been transfer on 14 decemb. even so, he told the court that onli $480,000 had been in the account that dai, with the rest arriv a dai later.

deutsch bank is involv in the case becaus it is itself be su by yuko. it had agre to loan to an arm of russian state ga firm gazprom the monei to bid for yuganskneftegaz, as the yuko unit is formal known. the sale went ahead, despit an order from the us bankruptci court order that it should be stop. in the end, the auction wa won by an unknown shell compani for $9.4bn - much less than most assess of it valu - befor end up in the hand of state-control oil firm rosneft. rosneft, meanwhil, ha agre to merg with gazprom, bring a larg chunk of russia's veri profit oil busi back under state control.

yuko maintain that it file for bankruptci in the us becaus it fear it would not be abl to do so in russia. it also said that in the event of go bust, it could offer the chanc of restructur. "it give us a kind of life after death altern," said yuko chief execut steven theed. yuko is current su four compani - gazprom, it unit gazpromneft, rosneft and the shell compani which won the bid - for their part in yugansk's dispos. it ha also threaten to sue the russian govern for $28bn. analyst have question whether a us court ha ani jurisdict over russian compani, while moscow offici have dismiss yuko' legal wrangl as meaningless. yuko claim that the right of it sharehold have been ignor and that is ha been punish for the polit ambit of it founder mikhail khodorkovski. mr khodorkovski, onc russia's richest man, is in prison, have been charg with fraud and tax evas and repeatedli deni bail.
