europ blame us over weak dollar

european leader have openli blame the us for the sharp rise in the valu of the euro.

us offici were talk up the dollar, thei said, but fail to take action to back up their word. meet in brussel, financ minist of the 12 eurozon countri voic their concern that the rise of the european currenc wa harm export. the dollar is within touch distanc of an all-time low reach earlier in novemb. at 0619 gmt on tuesdai, the dollar wa up slightli at just abov $1.29 to the euro, and bui 105.6 yen in tokyo. it ralli briefli on mondai amid sign that oil price ar eas.

but analyst said the respit wa like to be onli temporari. the european minist' comment, said junya tanas of jpmorgan chase bank in tokyo, were "gener too weak to produc a market reaction".

still, by the standard of diplomaci the european minist were forthright. nicola sarkozi of franc said he and hi colleagu were unanim in their worri that the declin of the dollar would hit europ's economi by eat into their export. "we ar concern about these develop, which ar destabilis, and which ar link to the accumul of deficit by our american friend," he said. the comment come a dai after us treasuri secretari john snow said a strong dollar wa "in america's interest".

but that wa not enough for mr sarkozi.

"if the american were to chang their polici, it's up to them to sai so," he said. and the european union's monetari affair commission, made it clear that action wa necessari. "i fulli welcom the word of mr snow," said joaquin almunia, "but we will need to see decis adopt in that direct. "if the imbal in the us economi ar not adjust in the futur, the decis in the market will be as in the past week." economist point out that whatev europ sai, in the short term a weaker dollar is a boon to presid georg w bush's administr. not onli doe it boost us export, but it also make the budget deficit easier to fund. on the other hand, slower european export would mean slower eu growth - potenti reduc the demand for us good.
