french wine get 70m euro top-up

the french govern is to hand it struggl wine industri 70m euro ($91m) in aid to help it battl fall sale and damag overproduct.

the financi packag is aim at assist vintner in financi troubl and improv how it wine is market. the french wine industri, the world's second largest, ha been hit by declin consumpt at home and the grow popular of new world wine. wine maker, howev, claim the support did not go far enough. the packag wa announc by agricultur minist dominiqu bussereau after talk with vintner' repres.

the bulk of the monei - about 40m euro - will be offer in the form of preferenti loan to heavili indebt produc to enabl them to reschedul their payment. a further 15m euro will be made avail to wine cooper, which make up the major of french produc, in low interest loan. effort to promot french wine abroad ar to be boost by an extra 3.5m euro in fund. franc fell behind the 'new world' produc of australia, chile and the unit state for the first time in 2003 in term of export.

domest consumpt, account for 70% of sale, ha suffer from strict restrict on advertis and tough drink-drive law.

the aid packag would "creat a posit climat around french viticultur," mr bussereau said. howev, wine maker and farmer said the support wa much less than thei had been hope for. "i am afraid the resourc ar not up to the ambit," jean-michel lemetay, from the fnsea agricultur union, told the associ press new agenc. in an effort to tackl overcapac, the govern will agre that vine can be destroi in area where grower give their unanim consent, while 500 vintner will be help to take earli retir. the govern will also seek european union approv to distil about 250 million litr of excess wine into alcohol, with vintner receiv compens. product is current outstrip demand by about 30%. the support is design to make french produc more competit in the face of increas global consolid across the wine industri. wine maker in franc's best-known region, such as burgundi, have found it hard to invest in new technolog and to creat recognis brand to appeal to oversea buyer.
