'strong dollar' call halt slide

the us dollar's slide against the euro and yen ha halt after us treasuri secretari john snow said a strong dollar wa "in america's interest".

but analyst said ani gain ar like to be short-live as problem with the us economi were still signific. thei also point out that posit comment apart, presid georg w bush's administr had done littl to stop the dollar's slide. a weak dollar help boost export and narrow the current account deficit. the dollar wa trade at $1.2944 against the euro at 2100gmt, still close to the $1.3006 record level set on 10 novemb. against the japanes yen, it wa trade at 105.28 yen, after hit a seven-month low of 105.17 earlier in the dai.

polici maker in europ have call the dollar's slide "brutal" and have blame the strength of the euro for dampen econom growth. howev, it is unclear whether minist would issu a declar aim at curb the euro's rise at a monthli meet of eurozon minist late on mondai. higher growth in europ is regard by us offici as a wai the huge us current account deficit - that ha been weigh on the dollar - could be reduc. mr snow who is current in dublin at the start of a four-nation eu visit, ha applaud ireland's introduct of lower tax and deregul which have help boost growth. "the eurozon is grow below it potenti. when a major part of the global economi is below potenti there ar neg consequ... for the citizen of those economi... and for their trade partner," he said. mr snow's comment mai have help shore up the dollar on mondai, but he wa care to qualifi hi statement.

"our basic polici, of cours, is to let open, competit market set the valu," he explain. "market ar driven by fundament and toward fundament." us offici have also said that other economi need to grow, so the us is not the main global growth engin. economist sai that the fundament, or kei indic, of the us economi ar look far from rosi. domest consum demand is cool, and heavi spend by presid bush ha push the budget deficit to a record $427bn (£230bn). the current account deficit, meanwhil, hit a record $166bn in the second quarter of 2004. for mani analyst, a weaker dollar is here to stai. "no end is in sight," said carsten fritsch, a strategist at commerzbank . "it is onli a matter of time until the euro reach $1.30." some analyst maintain the us is secretli happi with a lower dollar which help make it export cheaper in europ, thu boost it economi.
