gm, ford cut output as sale fall

us car firm gener motor (gm) and ford have been forc to cut product in the face of fall car sale.

us sale at gm sank 12.7% in februari compar to a year ago while ford sale drop 3% as foreign rival took a bigger share of the market. meanwhil, asian carmak fare well - toyota sale jump 11% while rival nissan notch up a 10% increas. overal. sale across the industri also fell to 1.25 million vehicl from 1.27 million a year earlier.

gm and ford blame high fuel price for low sale of big truck and ga-guzzl sport util vehicl (suv) - the vehicl that provid the biggest profit.

gm ad that us truck sale fell 9% in februari while car busi tumbl 17%, howev it did acknowledg that some new product - such as the pontiac g6 and chevrolet cobalt - had put in solid perform. "the calendar year is start off slower than expect, both for gm and the industri," said mark lanev, gm's vice presid for north american sale, servic and market. the slump in sale prompt the group to cut product in north america by 3% - it ha alreadi reduc output by around 9% in the face of grow stockpil. meanwhil, ford which post it ninth consecut drop in monthli us sale, said it wa cut first-quarter north american product by anoth 10,000 vehicl, or 1.2%. chrysler, the us unit of germani's daimlerchrysl, wa the onli detroit base automak to boast an increas in market share dure the month - with sale rise 8%.

but america's loss wa it foreign rival' gain as thei continu to nibbl awai at the us market. while japan's top car maker toyota and nissan saw sale acceler, even the smaller suzuki motor corp snap up a more busi with sale improv 17.6% on a year ago. in 2003, the firm launch an ambiti plan to tripl us sale by 2007 as it seek to becom a bigger player in the asian assault on the us market. korea's hyundai wa anoth big gainer, turn in a 19% surg in februari sale. toyota put it rise in sale down to strong result for it redesign avalon sedan and a 120% surg in sale of it ga-electr priu hybrid mid-size sedan as petrol-price consciou consum look to vehicl that were cheaper to run. "as ga price continu their upward march, fuel effici catch the public ey," jim press, vice presid and chief oper offic of toyota's us sale arm, said in a statement.
