us insur marsh cut 2,500 job

up to 2,500 job ar to go at us insur broker marsh & mclennan in a shake up follow bigger-than-expect loss.

the insur said the cut were part of a cost-cut drive, aim at save million of dollar. marsh post a $676m (£352m) loss for the last three month of 2004, against a $375m (£195.3m) profit a year befor. it blame an $850m payout to settl a price-rig lawsuit, brought by new york attornei gener elliot spitzer. under the settlement announc in januari, marsh took a pre-tax charg of $618m in the octob-to-decemb quarter, on top of the $232m charg from the previou quarter. "clearli 2004 wa the most difficult year in mmc's financi histori," marsh chief execut michael cherkaski said.

an ongo restructur drive at the group also led to a $337m hit in the fourth quarter, the world's biggest insur said.

analyst expect it latest round of cut to focu on it brokerag unit, which emploi 40,000 staff. the latest layoff will take the total number of job to go at the firm to 5,500 and ar expect to lead to annual save of more than $375m. as part of it effort to cut cost, the compani said it wa halv it dividend payment to 17 cent a share from 34 cent, a move which should enabl it to save $360m. look ahead, mr cherkaski forecast profit growth for the year ahead "with an oper margin in the upper-teen, and with the opportun for further margin expans". meanwhil, the compani also announc it would spin-off it mmc capit privat equiti unit, which manag the $3bn trident fund oper, to a group of employe. marsh did not sai when the move would take place, but said it had sign a letter of intent.

the insur hit the headlin in octob last year when it face accus of price rig. new york attornei gener elliot spitzer su the compani, accus it of receiv illeg payment to steer client to select firm as well as rig bid and fix price. in januari, marsh agre to pai $850m to settl the suit - a figur in line with the placement fee it collect in 2003 - and agre to chang it busi practic. in februari, a former senior execut plead guilti to crimin charg in a wide-rang probe of fraud and bid-rig in the insur industri. in januari, a former senior vice presid also plead guilti to crimin charg relat to the investig. in an effort to reform it busi practis, marsh said it ha alreadi introduc new leadership, new complianc procedur and new wai of deal with custom. "as a result, we ar readi to put these matter behind us and move ahead in 2005 to restor the trust our client have place in us and to rebuild sharehold valu," mr cherkaski said.
