us seek new $280bn smoker rule

the us justic depart is to try to overturn a court rule that threw out it claim for $280bn (£149bn) in damag from tobacco firm.

earlier thi month, a three-judg appeal court panel reject the claim - file in 1999 by the administr of bill clinton - in a 2-1 decis. govern lawyer said thei would ask the full us court of appeal for the district of columbia to hear the case. the court room battl is seen as kei in govern attempt to fight smoke. "it's pretti clear that thei've suffer a sever setback," said anthoni sebok, a professor at brooklyn law school, ad that the appeal wa what the govern "would be expect to ask for".

prosecutor had argu that tobacco firm li about the danger of smoke, ignor research that highlight problem, look to increas addict by manipul nicotin level and target the young with their advert. among the firm accus were altria group, rj reynold tobacco, lorillard tobacco, liggett group and brown and williamson. prosecutor went after the compani us legisl put in place to fight organis crime, and accus the firm of conspir and run "racket influenc and corrupt organis". the tobacco compani deni the charg, sai that thei never illeg conspir to promot smoke and fool the public. thei also said that thei have met mani of the govern's demand laid out in a landmark $206bn settlement hammer out in 1998 with 46 state. a three-judg panel agre with the compani, find that the case could not be brought under feder anti-racket law.

central to the govern's case wa a meet in the plaza hotel, new york, on 15 decemb, 1953. prosecutor contend that execut from the major tobacco firm met and agre to present a unifi strategi deni the harm effect of smoke. despit deni for decad that smoke could be link to ill, the compani have modifi their stanc in recent year. altria's philip morri now accept that nicotin is harm, and the compani's main lawyer william ohlemey told the bbc last year that earlier statement mai have been wrong but thei were not dishonest. govern lawyer have until 21 march to file their appeal.
