unilev shake up as profit slip

anglo-dutch consum good giant unilev is to merg it two manag board after report "unsatisfactori" earn for 2004.

it blame the poor result on sluggish decis make, a rise in discount retail and a wet european summer. the compani also cite difficult trade condit and a lack of demand for good such as it slimfast rang. unilev, which own brand includ dove soap, said annual pre-tax profit fell 36% to 2.9bn euro (£1.99bn). share fell 1% to 510.75 penc in london, and drop by 1.2% to 50.50 euro in amsterdam.

under the restructur plan, patrick cescau, the uk-base co-chairman, will becom group chief execut. dutch co-chairman antoni burgman will take on the role of non-execut chairman.

"we have recognis the need for greater clariti of leadership and we ar move to a simpler leadership structur that will provid a sharper oper focu," mr burgman said. "we ar leav behind on of the kei featur of unilev's govern but thi is a natur develop follow the chang introduc last year." the compani, which ha had dual headquart in rotterdam and london sinc 1930, will announc the locat of it head offic at a later date. unilev is not alon in try to simplifi it busi. oil giant shell last year dismantl it dual-ownership structur, after a seri of problem relat to the size of it oil reserv that hammer it share price and led to the resign of kei board member. "the best part of the new thi morn wa that the compani announc a structur simplif," said arjan sweer, an analyst at petercam.

the compani said the organiz chang would speed decis make, and it also mai make further chang.

the compani said it main focu will be on improv profit, and it is plan to acceler and increas invest in it 400 main brand. "while it is certainli the case that market have been tougher in the past eighteen month than we had expect, we have also lost some market share," said mr cescau. "we let a rang of target limit our abil flexibl and did not adjust our plan quickli enough to a more difficult busi environ." "our object is to revers the share loss that we experienc in some market in 2004 and return to growth."

unilev said european sale fell 2.8% last year, drag down by below part sale at it beverag divis, where revenu dip by almost 4%.

sale of ic cream and frozen food dip by 3.4% in the us last year, revenu grew by 1.5% "despit disappoint sale in slimfast", the compani said. in asia, lead product came under "attack" from rival such as procter & gambl. unilev took a 1.5bn euro on-time charg in the fourth quarter, includ a 650m euro write-down on slimfast diet food. sale of slimfast product have been hit in recent year by the popular of the atkin diet. but look ahead, unilev said it wa optimist about prospect for it slim product sai that demand is on the wane for rival low-carbohydr diet. the compani also said it plan to spend 500m euro thi year bui back share.
