brussel rap mobil call charg

the european commiss ha written to the mobil phone oper vodafon and t-mobil to challeng "the high rate" thei charg for intern roam.

in letter sent to the two compani, the commiss alleg the firm were abus their domin market posit in the german mobil phone market. it is the second time vodafon ha come under the commiss's scrutini. the uk oper is alreadi appeal against alleg that it uk roam rate ar "unfair and excess". vodafon's respons to the commiss's letter wa defiant. "we believ the roam market is competit and we expect to resist the charg," said a vodafon spokesman. "howev we will need time to examin the statement of object in detail befor we formal respond."

the commiss's investig into vodafon and deutsch telekom's t-mobil centr on the tariff the two compani charg foreign mobil oper to access their network when subscrib of those foreign oper us their mobil phone in germani.

the commiss believ these wholesal price ar too high and that the excess is pass on to consum. "the commiss aim to ensur that european consum ar not overcharg when thei us their mobil phone on their travel around the european union," the commiss said in a statement. vodafon and o2, britain's other big mobil phone oper, were sent similar statement of object by the commiss in juli last year. vodafon sent the commiss a respons to those alleg in decemb last year and is now wait for a repli. the vodafon spokesman said a similar process would be set in motion with these latest statement of object about it oper in germani.

the compani will have three month to respond to the commiss's alleg and the process "mai go on for some time yet", the spokesman said. the commiss could charg the compani up to 10% of their annual turnov, though in practic that sort of figur is rare demand. the commiss's latest move come just a few month after nation telecom regul across europ launch a joint investig which could lead to peopl be charg less for us their mobil phone when travel abroad. the investig involv regul assess whether there is effect competit in the roam market.
