bank opt to leav rate on hold

the bank of england ha left interest rate on hold at 4.75% for a sixth month in a row.

the bank's monetari polici committe (mpc) decid to take no action amid mix signal from the economi. but some economist predict a further rise in the cost of borrow will come later thi year. interest rate rose five time between novemb 2003 and august 2004 as soar hous price and buoyant consum data spark inflat fear. bank of england governor mervyn king ha recent warn against place too much weight on on month's econom data, suggest the mpc is wait for a clearer pictur to emerg. economist see next week's inflat report from the mpc as kei in assess whether a further interest rate rise is necessari to keep the economi in check.

slower consum spend and a quieter hous market ar like to have convinc the mpc that rate should be left unchang in recent month. inflat, howev, ha been rise faster than expect, hit an annual rate of 1.6% in decemb - it highest level in six month. data on wednesdai also show manufactur output rose at it fastest rate sinc mai last month, reinforc a view that econom growth wa stronger than forecast.

and recent hous survei from the halifax and nationwid have indic price ar still rise, albeit at a slower pace than in recent year. philip shaw, chief economist at investec secur, said he believ rate would remain at 4.75% for the rest of the year although strong econom data could lead to a further hike. "the econom landscap ha chang quit consider over the last coupl of month, " he said. "growth appear stronger and the mpc mai becom more concern about inflat trend." howard archer, economist at global insight said the mpc "mai well consid that the balanc of risk to the growth and inflat outlook have move from the downsid to the upsid".

busi group welcom the mpc's wide-expect move to leav rate on hold and caution against further rise. the british chamber of commerc (bcc) said it wa "concern by the clamour in some quarter" for earli interest rate increas. "we believ that these demand should be firmli resist," said david frost, bcc director gener. "manufactur still face extrem seriou problem and is perform poorli, in spite of the recent revis figur." ian mccafferti, chief economist at the cbi, said the mpc face an "interest" challeng. "consum appear to have pull in their horn over the holidai period, and export ar struggl with the strength of sterl," he said. "howev, the broader economi continu to show healthi growth, and the tight labour market and buoyant commod price ar nudg inflat higher."
