us interest rate increas to 2%

us interest rate ar to rise for the fourth time in five month, in a wide anticip move.

the feder reserv ha rais it kei feder fund rate by a quarter percentag point to 2% in light of mount evid that the us economi is regain steam. us compani creat twice as mani job as expect in octob while export hit record level in septemb. analyst said a clear-cut victori for presid bush in last week's elect pave the wai for a rise. anoth rise could be in store for decemb, some economist warn.

the fed's open market committe - which set interest rate polici in the us - vote unanim in favour of a quarter point rise. the fed ha been gradual eas rate up sinc the summer, with quarter percentag point rise in june, august and septemb.

the central bank ha been act to restrain inflationari pressur while be care not to obstruct econom growth. the fed did not rule out rais rate onc again in decemb but note that ani futur increas would take place at a "measur" pace. in a statement, the fed said that long-term inflat pressur remain "well contain" while the us economi appear to be "grow at a moder pace despit the rise in energi price". financi analyst broadli welcom the fed's move and share trade larg flat. the dow jone industri averag close down 0.89 point, or 0.01%, at 10,385.48.

recent evid ha point to an upturn in the us economi. us firm creat 337,000 job last month, twice the amount expect, while export reach record level in septemb. the economi grew 3.7% in the third quarter, slower than forecast, but an improv on the 3.3% growth seen in the second quarter. analyst claim the fed's assess of futur econom growth wa a posit on but stress that the juri wa still out on the prospect of a further rise in decemb.

"let's wait until we see how growth and employ bear up under the fourth quarter's energi price drag befor conclud that the fed ha more work to do in 2005," said averi shenfeld, senior economist at cibc world market.

"i think the feder reserv doe not want to rock the boat and is us a gradual approach in rais the interest rate," said sung won sohn, chief us economist for well fargo bank. "the economi is do a bit better right now but there ar still some concern about geopolit, employ and the price of oil," he ad. the further rise in us rate is unlik to have a direct bear on uk monetari polici. the bank of england (boe) ha kept interest rate on hold at 4.75% for the past three month, lead some comment to argu that rate mai have peak. in a report publish on wednesdai, the bank said that with rate at their current level, inflat would rise to it 2% target within two year. howev, boe governor mervyn king warn onli last month that the era of consist low inflat and low unemploy mai be come to an end.
