us bank in $515m sec settlement

five bank of america subsidiari have agre to pai a total of $515m (£277m) to settl an investig into fraudul trade share practic.

the us secur and exchang commiss announc the settlement, the latest in an industri-wide clean-up of us mutual fund. the sec also said it had brought fraud charg against two ex-senior execut of columbia distributor. columbia distributor wa part of fleetboston, bought by boa last year. three other ex-columbia execut agre settlement with the sec.

the sec ha set itself the task of stamp out the mutual fund' us of market-time, a form of quick-fire, short-term share trade that harm the interest of small investor, with whom mutual fund ar particularli popular. in the last two year, it ha impos penalti total nearli $2bn on 15 fund. the sec unveil two separ settlement, on cover boa's direct subsidiari, and anoth for busi that were part of fleetboston at the time. in both case, it said there had been secret deal to engag in market time in mutual fund share. the sec agre a deal total $375m with banc of america capit manag, bacap distributor and banc of america secur. it wa made up of $250m to pai back gain from market time, and $125m in penalti. it is to be paid to the damag fund and their sharehold. separ, the sec said it had reach a $140m deal - equal split between penalti and compens - in it probe into columbia manag advisor (cam) and columbia fund distributor (cfd) and three ex-columbia execut. these busi becam part of boa when it snap up rival bank fleetboston in a $47bn merger last march.

the sec file civil fraud charg in a boston feder court against jame tambon, who it sai head cfd's sale oper, and hi alleg second in command robert hussei. the sec is press for the highest tier of financi penalti against the pair for "multipl violat", repay of ani person gain, and an injunct to prevent futur breach, a spokeswoman for the sec's boston offic told the bbc. there wa no immedi comment from the men's' lawyer. the sec's settlement with cam and cfd includ agreement with three other ex-manag, peter martin, erik gustafson and joseph palombo, who paid person financi penalti of between $50-100,000.
