yuko owner sue russia for $28bn

the major owner of embattl russian oil firm yuko ha su the russian govern for $28.3bn (£15.2bn).

the kremlin last year seiz and sold yuko' main product arm, yugansk, to state-run oil group rosneft for $9.3bn to offset a massiv back tax bill. group menatep, the gibraltar-base hold compani which control 51% of yuko, sai thi wa illeg. menatep ha alreadi ask rosneft to repai a $900m loan that yugansk had secur on it asset.

the russian govern's argument for sell yuganskneftegaz - the unit's full name - wa that yuko ow more than $27bn in back tax for the year from 2000 onward. it accus the firm of us a web of offshor firm to avoid it tax liabil, and the court sent in bailiff to freez yuko account and seiz yugansk.

but critic sai the sell-off, and the assault on yuko' financ, ar part of an attempt to bring the energi industri back under state control. accord to menatep, the govern's action were contrari to the 1994 energi charter treati, which wa design to regul disagr over energi invest. "we have warn the russian govern about their continu attack against yuko, it personnel and it sharehold and we have warn ani buyer of yuganskneftegaz that thei would face a lifetim of litig," said tim osborn, a director of group menatep. "the time for warn is over and action to recov the valu of our loss begin in earnest todai."

menatep said the valu of it yuko sharehold had gone from $17.8bn to "virtual noth" sinc 2003 as a result of the russian govern's action, as it share have fallen 97%. accord to it pari lawyer, emmanuel gaillard of shearman and sterl, the overal claim is base on that figur, with a 60% addit for the share gain that could have accru sinc then. arbitr of the lawsuit could take place in stockholm or the hagu, mr gaillard said. while russia ha sign the charter, it ha never ratifi it - which some expert sai could make it difficult for menatep to press it case. but mr gaillard told bbc new that the charter came into effect on signatur, not ratif. "russia ha said in the past that it is bound by it, so as to attract foreign investor," he said.

yuko is still wait to see what will happen to it file in a us court for bankruptci protect. it took the action to try to prevent the forc sale of yugansk - first to a littl-known shell compani, which in turn wa bought by rosneft. yuko claim it downfal wa punish for the polit ambit of it founder mikhail khodorkovski. mr khodorkovski, current face fraud and tax evas charg of hi own, wa on of the founder of menatep. he ha sinc sign over hi sharehold to on of hi fellow investor.
