aviat firm ey boom india

india's defenc minist ha open the countri's aero india 2005 air show with an invit for global aerospac firm to outsourc job to the nation.

pranab mukherje said such compani could take advantag of india's highli skill worker and low wage. more than 240 civil and militari aerospac firm from 31 countri ar attend the show. analyst said india could spend up to $35bn (£18.8bn) in the aviat market over the next 20 year. giant such boe and airbu - on the civil aviat front - as well as lockhe martin and franc's snecma - on the militari side - ar some of the firm attend the show. "there is tremend scope for outsourc from india in area where the compani ar competit," said mr mukerje. "we ar keen to welcom intern collabor that ar in conform with our nation goal."

lockhe said it had sign an agreement with state-own hindustan aeronaut (hal) to share inform on the p-3 orion maritim surveil aircraft.

in fact, the indian arm forc is consid the bui of us p-3 orion as well as f-16 fighter jet from lockhe. the us militari industri ha show a strong interest to open a link with india, now that relat between the two countri have improv a lot. in fact, it is the first time the us air forc will attend the air show sinc sanction impos in 1998 after india's nuclear test were lift. but the indian air forc is also consid propos from other foreign firm such as franc's dassault aviat, sweden's saab and russia's mikoyan-gurevich. meanwhil, franc's snecma ha also said it plan a joint ventur with hal to make engin part, with an initi invest of $6.5m.

on the civilian front, boe announc a deal with india's hcl technolog to develop a platform for the flight test system of it 787 dreamlin aircraft. the us compani also said it had agre with a new indian budget airlin the sale of 10 737-800 plane for $630m. the airlin, spicejet, will also have the option to acquir 10 more aircraft. airbu ha also recent sign fresh deal with two indian airlin - air deccan and kingfish. in addit, the european compani ha plan to open a train centr in india. meanwhil, flag carrier air india is consid to bui 50 new aircraft from either boe or airbu. "no other market is go to see the growth that will be seen here in the come year," said dinesh keskar, senior vice presid boe.
