russian oil merger exclud yuko

the merger of russian ga giant gazprom and oil firm rosneft is to go ahead, but will not includ yugansk, which wa controversi bought last year.

the merger, back by russian author, will allow foreign to trade in gazprom share. gazprom chief alexei miller confirm rosneft-own yugansk wa not part of the deal and will instead be spun off. under the agreement, the state will get a control share of gazprom in exchang for rosneft. the state want to control gazprom befor allow foreign to trade. speak on ntv televis, which is control by gazprom, mr miller ad that yugansk, which wa swallow up by rosneft late last year, will oper as a separ, state-own oil firm head by current rosneft chief sergei bogdanchikov. accord to report from russian new agenc interfax, the deal should go through in the next two to three month.

"obtain major control over gazprom is the begin of the liberalis of the market in gazprom share," mr miller ad. by open up trade in gazprom to foreign, the firm will becom a top emerg market plai for trader. current, foreign can onli trade in gazprom via a small issu of london-list proxi share. "thi is posit new for the intern invest commun," global asset manag invest chief david smith said. "the major of investor ar go to be happi," he ad.

howev, analyst were disappoint that yugansk would not be includ in the deal. "yugansk is a heavi cashflow gener and would have been a much better asset for gazprom," renaiss capit energi analyst adam land told reuter new agenc. but he said the latest develop wa simpli an interim step to allow foreign to trade in gazprom. "ultim and industri, gazprom need yugansk," he ad. analyst said the deal would give gazprom control of 8% of russia's total oil product, an improv on it current 2.5%, but still far less than the 20% share it would have gain had it also taken over yugansk. howev, the merg group will still remain outsid russia's top five oil produc - led by lukoil with 11% of the market , follow by tnk-bp which is half own by bp, and surgutneftegaz. instead, the merg gazprom-rosneft group will rank alongsid sibneft with 7% of the market. yugansk wa sold to a littl-known shell compani in a disput auction in decemb, follow what mani thought wa a polit-motiv attack on yuko. the shell compani wa then snap up by rosneft. yuko unsuccessfulli sought to halt the auction by appli for bankruptci through the us court. the unit wa auction by russian author to help pai off a $27.5bn back-tax bill.
