feta chees battl reach court

a row over whether onli greec should be allow to label it chees feta ha reach the european court of justic.

the danish and german govern ar challeng a european commiss rule which said greec should have sole right to us the name. the commiss's decis gave the same legal protect to feta as to italian parma ham and french champagn. but critic of the judgement sai feta is a gener term, with the chees produc wide outsid greec.

the commiss's controversi 2002 rule gave "protect design of origin" statu to feta chees made in greec, effect restrict the us of the feta name to produc there.

from 2007 onward, greek firm will have the exclus us of the feta label and produc elsewher in europ must find anoth name to describ their product. the german and danish govern argu that feta doe not relat to a specif geograph area and that their firm have been produc and export the chees for year. "in our opinion it is a gener design and we do not have ani other name or term for thi type of chees," han arn kristiansen, a spokesman for the danish dairi board, told the bbc. denmark is europ's second largest produc of feta after greec - produc about 30,000 tonn a year - and export it product to greec. it is concern that the rule could threaten the product of other chees in denmark such as brie. "it would cost million if we want to introduc a new design," mr kristiansen said. "that is just on of the cost."

the case will also have a major impact on britain's sole feta produc, yorkshir compani shepherd purs chees.

judi bell, the compani's founder, said it would cost a huge amount to rebrand it product. "if we lose we will have to go through a massiv re-merchandis process and reorganis," she said. "we have never tri to pull the wool over anyon's ey - it's veri clear from the label that it's yorkshir feta." the origin decis wa a victori for greec, where feta chees is believ to have been produc for about 6,000 year. feta is a soft white chees made from sheep or goat's milk, and is an essenti ingredi in greek cuisin. greec make 115,000 tonn, mainli for domest consumpt. the court is expect to reach a verdict in the case in the autumn.
