ukrain revisit state sell-off

ukrain is prepar what could be a wholesal review of the privatis of thousand of busi by the previou administr.

the new presid, viktor yushchenko, ha said a "limit" list of compani is be drawn up. but on wednesdai prime minist yulia tymoshenko said the govern wa plan to renationalis 3,000 firm. the govern sai mani privatis firm were sold to alli of the last administr at rock-bottom price. more than 90,000 busi in all, from massiv corpor to tini shopfront, have been sold off sinc 1992, as the command economi built up when ukrain wa part of the soviet union wa dismantl.

ms tymoshenko said prosecutor had drawn up a list of more than 3,000 busi which were to be review. "we will return to the state that which wa illeg put into privat hand."

a dai earlier, mr yushchenko - keen to reassur potenti investor - had said onli 30 to 40 top firm would be target. the list "will be limit and final, and will not be extend after it complet", he said. an open-end list could further damag outsid investor' fragil faith in ukrain, said stuart hensel of the economist intellig unit. but the govern seem keen not to make the review look like the kind of wholesal renationalis which mani fear in russia, mr hensel said. as a result, it wa plan to resel rather than keep firm in state hand. "thei're awar of the need not to scare investor, and to be care of intern divid within ukrain," he said. "thei don't want to be seen to be transfer asset from on set of oligarch to a new set." foreign invest in ukrain, at about $40 a head in 2004, is on of the lowest among ex-soviet state.

mr yushchenko becam presid after two elect in decemb, the first of which wa annul amid alleg of vote irregular and massiv street protest.

hi oppon, viktor yanukovich, still ha huge support in the countri's eastern industri heartland. mr yushchenko's administr ha accus it predecessor, led by ex-presid leonid kuchma, of corrupt. the privatis review's number on target is a steel mill sold to a consortium which includ viktor pinchuk, mr kuchma's son-in-law, for $800m (£424m) despit higher bid from sever foreign group. the mill, krivorizhst, is on of the world's most profit. "we sai krivorizhst wa stolen, and at ani cost we will return it to the state," mr yushchenko told an investor' confer in kiev.

on of the jilt bidder, netherland-base group lnm, said it welcom the possibl that the mill might be back on the market.

"if the origin privatis is annul and a new tender issu, then we would look at it with great interest," a spokesman told bbc new. a resal of krivorizhst could potenti tripl the price, accord to the economist intellig unit's mr hensel. but he warn that the govern could decid to take the easi rout of revalu the compani and charg the exist owner the revis price rather than undertak a fresh sale. "that wai, mr yushchenko can go to the public and sai he ha forc the oligarch to plai by the rule," he told bbc new.
