or cost hit global steel firm

share in steel firm have drop worldwid amid concern that higher iron or cost will hit profit growth.

share in germani's thyssenkrupp, the uk's coru and franc's arcleor fell while japan's nippon steel slid after it agre to pai 72% more for iron or. china's baoshan iron and steel co. said it wa delai a share sale becaus of weak market condit, ad it would rais steel price to offset or cost. the threat of higher raw materi cost also hit industri such as carmak. franc's peugeot warn that it profit mai declin thi year as a result of the higher steel, plastic and commod price.

steelmak have been enjoi record profit as demand for steel ha risen, driven by the boom economi of countri such as china and india. steel price rose by 8% global in januari alon and by 24% in china.

the boom time ar far from over, but analyst sai that earn growth mai slow. the share price fall wa initi trigger by new that two of the world's biggest iron or supplier had negoti contract at much-higher price. miner rio tinto and cia. vale do rio dolc (cvrd) thi week manag to boost by 72% the price of their iron or, a kei compon of steel. analyst had expect japan's nippon to agre to a price rise of between 40% and 50%. steel analyst peter fish, director of sheffield-base consult group mep, said the extent of cvrd's price rise wa "unchart territori", ad that the steel industri "hasn't seen an increas of thi magnitud probabl in 50 year". analyst now expect other iron or produc, such as australia's bhp billiton, to seek annual price rise of up to 70%.

the new trigger the share price weak. "it spark worri that steel maker might not be abl to increas product price further [ to cover rise or cost]" explain kazuhiro takahashi of daiwa secur smbc. in europ, arcelor shed 2.1% to 17.58 euro in pari, with thyssenkrupp drop 1.7% to 16.87 euro. in london, coru fell 2.2% to 55.57 penc. japan's biggest steel compani nippon steel lost 2.5% to 270 yen, with closest rival jfe hold down 3.4%. china's baoshan, the countri's largest steel produc, said that the uncertainti surround the industri ha prompt it to pull it plan share sale. the firm had been expect to offer 22.5bn yuan ($2.7bn) worth of share to investor. no date ha been given for when the 5 billion share will come to the market. baoshan stock climb on new of the delai and it decis to increas the price of it steel by 10%.
