why few target ar better than mani

the econom target set out at the lisbon summit of european union leader in 2000 were meant to help europ leapfrog it wai past the unit state to becom the world's lead economi by 2010.

but the lisbon target ar about much more than just econom prestig. for mani economist and analyst thei ar about ensur europ doesn't becom a global econom laggard. thei ar also about ensur europ can continu to compet as an equal with the grow econom giant of asia, india and china, as well as with the econom might of the unit state. that's why there wa a tone of urgenc in the report, out on wednesdai, by the former dutch prime minist wim kok. mr kok wa commiss by the european commiss in march thi year to assess how far the eu ha come toward meet the lisbon target, five year on from their incept. hi conclus wa simpl: too mani of the target will be serious miss.

lisbon risk becom a "synonym for miss object and fail promis", hi report said. "the statu quo is not an option."

at risk in the medium to long run is noth less than the sustain of the societi europ ha built, it said. the report come at a time when europ's competit posit is wane. the eu's econom growth rate is project to be 2% thi year and 2.4% next. while there ha been growth in overal employ rate in europ, product lag behind that of the us. but meet the lisbon target requir a polit commit that no eu member state ha volunt so far. that ha in part been due to the state of the global economi in the past few year.

as mr kok's report note: "the ink had scarc dri on the [lisbon] agreement befor the worldwid stock market bubbl implod." "the us suffer two year of econom slowdown and recess and the european economi follow suit."

the circumst weren't conduc to creat the 20 million new job promis by eu leader in lisbon in 2000. neither were thei conduc to get govern to spend more on research and develop, monei need if the eu wa to meet it target of becom a so-call "knowledg-base economi". "the [lisbon] vision is a compel on, but in order to do it societi ha to chang," said paul hofheinz of the lisbon council, a brussel-base citizen action group. "what you find is that a lot of peopl have been fight chang. you find trade union fight chang. but also the employ' associ. "even though thei tell you thei're in favour of chang, mani ar actual push for less competit, more subsidi and less free market activ."

but part of the problem wa also link to the origin target set out in lisbon five year ago. target have a habit of come back to haunt you and in the lisbon case, thei cover too much, accord to the wim report. econom growth and job creation were link to issu rang from environment protect to social inclus, and even safeti at sea. the agenda wa just too broad and as a result noth wa prioritis.

"lisbon is about everyth and thu about noth," the kok report said. "everybodi is respons and thu no on." that's why the kok report recommend that the lisbon target be narrow down to 14 kei indic, with an emphasi on creat job and econom growth. it also recommend that the european commiss draw up a leagu tabl which rank countri accord to the step thei're take toward meet the target, effect "name, shame and fame". "rhetor and deliveri don't necessarili go hand in hand," mr kok said in a press confer alongsid the public of hi report. "we don't have the luxuri anymor just to exchang polit with on anoth."

on on point mr kok wa veri clear: the european union should not try to emul the us economi. the european econom and social model need to chang, but not so much so that social and environment issu take a backseat to econom growth. in that sens, the lisbon agenda is sail into unchart water. the kok report tri to do awai with a belief that job need to be sacrif at the altar of econom growth. "it's veri ambiti," said john palmer, polit director at the european polici centr, a brussel-base think-tank. "thi is someth that no advanc economi in the world ha tri to do. it's go to requir quit new and innov polici." but some analyst believ that the kok report doesn't come up with the sort of innov polici and think need to make the lisbon target a realiti. for exampl, it recommend put in place polici which encourag women and older peopl to remain in the workforc. but it doesn't sai how compani should be convinc to do thi. it will be up to the incom presid of the european commiss, jose manuel barroso, to adopt mr kok's recommend and press them on eu govern. mr barroso ha said that the eu's competit will be hi top prioriti. he expect hi five-year term in offic to be judg on europ's success in meet the lisbon agenda.
