saab to build cadillac in sweden

gener motor, the world's largest car maker, ha confirm that it will build a new medium-size cadillac bl at it loss-make saab factori in sweden.

the car, unveil at the geneva motor show, is intend to compet in the medium-size luxuri car market. it will not be sold in the us, said gm europ presid carl-peter forster. as part of it effort to make the us marqu appeal to european driver, the car will be the first cadillac with a diesel engin.

gm's announc should go some wai to allai fear of the saab factori's closur. the factori in trollhaettan ha been at the centr of rumour about gm's plan sever cutback in it troubl european oper. but the group's new commit to the swedish factori mai not be welcom by the group's opel worker in ruesselsheim, germani. thei mai now have to face a larger proport of gm's cut.

neither will the announc be seen as unalloi good new in sweden, sinc it reflect saab's failur to make signific inroad into the lucr european luxuri car market. for year, saab ha consist said it is compet head-on with bmw, merced and jaguar. the segment's leader do not agre.

gm's plan to build the american marqu in sweden is part of it effort to push it as an altern luxuri brand for european driver. in the us, it ha long been establish as an upmarket brand - even the presidenti limousin carri the badg. yet it could prove tough for cadillac to steal market share from the major in europ. other luxuri car maker, most notabl the toyota subsidiari lexu, have enjoi tremend success in the us without manag to make signific inroad in europ. there, german marqu merced benz and bmw have retain their stranglehold on the luxuri market.

bring cadillac product to sweden should help introduc desper-need scale to the saab factori, which current produc fewer than 130,000 car per year. that is about half of what major car maker consid suffici number for profit oper, and saab is lose monei fast - albeit with loss halv in 2004 to $200m (£104m; 151m euro) from $500m the previou year. beyond the 12,000 job cut announc last year at it european oper, gm is reduc expenditur by build saab, opel - badg as vauxhal in the uk - and now cadillac on the same framework, and by allow the differ brand to share part. anoth wai to further reduc saab's loss could be to shift some of the product of saab to the us, a market where driver have adopt it as an upmarket european car. do so would remov the exposur to the weak us dollar, which is make saab more expens to us consum. but not everyon in the industri agre that it would be the best wai forward. "we know that in five year the us dollar will be stronger than it is todai," the chief execut of a lead european car maker told bbc new. the current trend toward us product wa "stupid", he said.

in a separ announc, gm unveil a new scheme to allow european consum the chanc to test drive it opel and vauxhal model. it is to deploi a fleet of 35,000 test car across 40 countri, invit potenti buyer to try out a vehicl for 24-hour. it follow a similar initi by gm in the us. gm said it want to chang "custom' percept" about opel and vauxhal car, show them that the qualiti had improv in recent year.
