share hit by ms drug suspens

share in elan and biogen idec plung on mondai as the firm suspend sale of new multipl sclerosi drug tysabri after a patient's death in the us.

on the new york stock exchang, share in ireland-base elan lost 70% while us partner biogen idec shed 43%. the firm took action after the death from a central nervou system diseas and a suspect case of the condit. the case cite involv the us of both tysabri and avonex, biogen idec's exist multipl sclerosi drug. the compani said thei have no report of the rare condit - progress multifoc leukoencephalopathi (pml) - in patient take either tysabri or avonex alon. tysabri wa approv for us in the us last novemb and wa wide tip to becom the world's lead multipl sclerosi treatment.

"the compani will work with clinic investig to evalu tysabri-treat patient and will consult with lead expert to better understand the possibl risk of pml," the two firm said in a statement. "the outcom of these evalu will be us to determin possibl re-initi of dose in clinic trial and futur commerci avail."

analyst had believ the product would provid a new growth opportun for biogen idec, which had face increas competit from rival to avonex. elan, onc the biggest firm on the irish stock exchang, wa also expect to receiv a boost, from the new product. an inquiri into elan's account in 2002 brought the group close to bankruptci but the firm ha been rebuild itself sinc, with it share price increas by almost four-fold last year. "most of the valu in the compani wa in tysabri," said ian hunter at goodbodi stockbrok in dublin. "now there's a question mark over it." elan finish down $18.90 at $8, while biogen fell $28.63 to $38.65.

- share in uk pharmaceut firm phytopharm close down 19.84% at 151.5 penc on the london stock exchang on mondai, after it said a partner wa set to pull out of a deal on an experiment alzheim's diseas treatment. phytopharm said japan's yamanouchi pharmaceut wa like to end a licens agreement, prompt analyst to rais question over the level of it futur cash reserv.
