ex-boe director get jail term

an ex-chief financi offic at boe ha receiv a four-month jail sentenc and a fine of $250,000 (£131,961) for illeg hire a top air forc aid.

michael sear admit hi guilt in break conflict of interest law by recruit darleen druyun while she still handl militari contract. ms druyun is current serv a nine month sentenc for favour boe when award lucr contract. boe lost a $23bn govern contract after a pentagon inquiri into the case. the contract, to provid refuel tanker for the us air forc, wa cancel last year.

the pentagon reveal earlier thi week that it would examin eight other contract worth $3bn which it believ mai have been taint by ms druyun's role in the procur process. boe sack mr sear and ms druyun in novemb 2003 after alleg that thei had violat compani recruit polici. ms druyun had talk with mr sear in octob 2002 about work for boe, while she wa still a top procur offici within the pentagon. she subsequ join the compani in januari 2003. ms druyun admit that she had steer multi-billion dollar contract to boe and other favour compani.

in document file in a virginia court ahead of mr sear' sentenc, prosecutor blame boe's senior manag for fail to ask kei question about the "legal and ethic issu" surround ms druyun's appoint. mr sear told prosecutor that no other boe offici were awar that ms druyun wa still respons for major procur decis at the time she wa discuss a job with boe. howev, analyst believ boe mai yet face civil charg aris from the scandal. the pentagon ha investig 400 contract, date back to 1993, sinc the alleg against ms druyun came to light.

boe's corpor ethic have come under scrutini on sever occas in recent year. boe wa su by lockhe martin after it rival accus it of industri espionag dure a 1998 contract competit. boe apologis publicli for the affair - although it claim it did not gain ani unfair advantag - and pledg to improv it procedur. the pentagon subsequ revok $1bn worth of contract assign to boe and prohibit the seattl-base compani from futur rocket work.
