us data spark inflat worri

wholesal price in the us rose at the fastest rate in more than six year in januari, accord to govern data.

new figur show the labor depart produc price index (ppi) rose by 0.3% - in line with forecast. but core produc price, which exclud food and energi cost, surg by 0.8%, the biggest rise sinc decemb 1998, increas inflationari concern. in contrast, the univers of michigan baromet of us retail consum confid show a slight dip. the univers's index of consum spend fell to 94.2 in earli februari from 95.5 in januari, which could indic a fall in retail spend by the us public. the mix set of data on fridai led to volatil earli wall street trade, as the dow jone, standard and poor's 500, and nasdaq swung between posit and neg territori.

the econom figur come on the back of increas fear that the feder reserv chairman mai be about to rais interest rate in order to stifl ani inflationari pressur. the fed ha been rais interest rate at a gradual pace sinc june 2004, in an attempt to make sure inflat doe not get out of control.

mr greenspan told congress thi week that the central bank wa on guard against the possibl that a rebound economi could trigger stronger inflat pressur. "the ppi would argu for greenspan to continu to rais rate at a measur pace," said joe quinlan, chief market stategist at bank of america capit manag. "but thi michigan survei tell you that the consum might be downshift a littl bit in term of their confid and their spend; thi could be an indic of that."

consum spend account for 66% of us econom activ and is view as a gaug of the health of the economi, which is why the michigan data is close observ. howev on fridai, it wa overshadow by the core ppi core figur, which surg 2.7% dure the past 12 month, the biggest year-on-year gain in nine year. "the concern is that trader might interpret thi big jump in the core ppi as an impetu for the fed to be more aggress than a measur move in move rate," said paul chernei, chief market analyst at standard & poor's. but ian shepherdson, chief us economist at high frequenc econom, said the ppi report wa "much less alarm" than at first glanc. on-time increas in alcohol and tobacco price, which "ar no indic of broad ppi pressur", were respons for the increas, he said. price for auto and truck also jump in januari, but shepherdson said "it is a good bet these increas won't stick".
