yuko sue four firm for $20bn

russian oil firm yuko ha su four compani for their role in last year's forc state auction of it kei oil product unit yuganskneftega.

yuko is claim more than $20bn (£11bn) in damag after yugansk wa sold in decemb to settl back tax. the four compani name in the law suit ar ga giant gazprom, it unit gazpromneft, invest compani baikal, and state oil firm rosneft. yuko submit the suit in houston, where it file for bankruptci. as well as su for damag, yuko ha ask the us court to send it tax disput with the russian govern to an intern arbitr. it also ha submit a reorganis plan as part of it chapter 11 bankruptci file.

the clash between yuko and the kremlin came to a head last year when yuko wa hit with a bill of more than $27bn in back tax and unpaid fine. to settl the bill, russia forc yuko to sell off yuganskneftega.

yuko call the sale illeg and ha turn to court in the us in an effort to regain control of the oil product busi. it also ha vow to us all legal mean at it dispos to go after ani firm that tri to bui or take control of it asset. earlier thi month it su the russian govern for $28.3bn. analyst have question whether a us court ha ani jurisdict over russian compani, while moscow offici have dismiss yuko' legal wrangl as meaningless. in houston, bankruptci judg letitia clark will start a two-dai hear on 16 februari to hear argument on whether a us court is the proper forum for the case.

the threat of legal action from yuko and it bankruptci file in houston did have an effect on last year's auction, howev. concern that it would be caught up in a court battl, gazprom and gazpromneft withdrew from the auction, and yuganskneftega wa sold to littl-known invest firm baikal financ group. a few dai later, baikal gave control of the compani to state-run oil group rosneft for $9.3bn. rosneft, meanwhil, ha agre to merg with gazprom, bring a larg chunk of russia's veri profit oil busi back under state control. yuko claim that the right of it sharehold have been ignor and that is ha been punish for the polit ambit of it founder mikhail khodorkovski. mr khodorkovski, onc russia's richest man, is in prison, have been charg with fraud and tax evas and repeatedli deni bail.
