newest eu member underpin growth

the european union's newest member will bolster europ's econom growth in 2005, accord to a new report.

the eight central european state which join the eu last year will see 4.6% growth, the unit nation econom commiss for europ (unec) said. in contrast, the 12 euro zone countri will put in a "lacklustr" perform, gener growth of onli 1.8%. the global economi will slow in 2005, the unec forecast, due to widespread weak in consum demand.

it warn that growth could also be threaten by attempt to reduc the unit state' huge current account deficit which, in turn, might lead to signific volatil in exchang rate.

unec is forecast averag econom growth of 2.2% across the european union in 2005. howev, total output across the euro zone is forecast to fall in 2004 from 1.9% to 1.8%. thi is due larg to the falter german economi, which shrank 0.2% in the last quarter of 2004. on mondai, germani's bdb privat bank associ said the german economi would struggl to meet it 1.4% growth target in 2005.

separ, the bundesbank warn that germani's effort to reduc it budget deficit below 3% of gdp present "huge risk" given that headlin econom growth wa set to fall below 1% thi year. publish it 2005 econom survei, the unec said central european countri such as the czech republ and slovenia would provid the backbon of the contin's growth. smaller nation such as cypru, ireland and malta would also be among the contin's best perform economi thi year, it said. the uk economi, on the other hand, is expect to slow in 2005, with growth fall from 3.2% last year to 2.5%.

consum demand will remain fragil in mani of europ's largest countri and economi will be mostli driven by growth in export. "in view of the fragil of factor of domest growth and the dampen effect of the stronger euro on domest econom activ and inflat, monetari polici in the euro area is like to continu to 'wait and see', the organis said in it report. global econom growth is expect to fall from 5% in 2004 to 4.25% despit the continu strength of the chines and us economi. the unec warn that attempt to bring about a control reduct in the us current account deficit could caus difficulti. "the orderli revers of the deficit is a major challeng for polici maker in both the unit state and other economi," it note.
