india and russia in energi talk

india and russia ar to work togeth in a seri of energi deal, part of a pact which could see india invest up to $20bn in oil and ga project.

on the agenda ar oil and ga extract as well as transport deal, to be led by russian energi giant gazprom and india's ongc. the indian firm is also expect to hold talk on tuesdai about bui a stake in asset onc own by yuko. it is report to be keen on bui a 15% stake in oil unit yuganskneftega. the former yuko subsidiari wa controversi sold off last year and eventu acquir by state-own energi giant rosneft.

russian media report that india and russia sign a memorandum of understand on energi co-oper on tuesdai dure a meet between oil and natur ga corpor chairman subir raha, gazprom chairman aleksei miller and india's petroleum minist mani shankar aiyar.

the agreement is like to see the two compani develop refin facil in russia, india and elsewher and organis deliveri of oil, ga and petrochem from russia to india and other countri across asia. ongc could invest in ga and oil field in sakhalin, in the far east of russia, and mai also take part in joint tender bid for project in eastern siberia and the caspian sea.

india is urgent search for fresh energi suppli - particularli liquefi natur ga - as domest demand is grow at more than 5% a year.

ongc's mr raha said the two could work togeth on joint bid from next year. "at current oil and ga price, our cash flow situat is good," he told reuter. "what we ar sai is - gazprom ha a huge amount of ga and we have the monei. "the invest mai go up to $20bn or more for a period of five year or so."

russian new agenc report that india's petroleum minist mr aiyar and russian energi minist viktor khristenko would discuss the futur of yugansk at a meet on tuesdai. ongc's mr raha declin to be drawn on hi firm's report interest in the compani. howev, he stress that ongc wa not interest in a 'loan-for-oil deal' in connect to yugansk, similar to that conclud recent between rosneft and china's nation petroleum corpor. "china's problem is it ha immedi demand and thei need the oil for their coastal refineri. we do not. we would like long-term secur through equiti particip." it is thought that ani decis over yugansk will be delai until a us court ha decid whether to grant yuko bankruptci protect. yuko is su a host of compani involv in the sale of yugansk, auction off to pai a huge back-tax bill. it ha also threaten legal action against ani busi which ha futur commerci deal with it former subsidiari.
