busi fear over sluggish eu economi

as european leader gather in rome on fridai to sign the new eu constitut, mani compani will be focus on matter much closer to home - name how to stai in busi.

lill is a popular tourist destin for briton who want a tast of franc at the weekend. but how mani tourist look at the impress grand victorian chambr de commerc, which stand besid the opera hous, and consid that it wa built - like the town hall in mani northern english town - on the wealth creat by coal, steel and textil? like northern england and industri scotland, those industri have been in long term declin - the last coal pit close in 1990. beck-crespel is a specialist steel firm in armentier, about 20 mile from lill. the compani ha not laid off a worker sinc 1945. it specialis in make bolt and fix for power station and the oil industri, but not mani of those ar be built in europ these dai.

director hugu charbonni sai he is under pressur becaus factori in the far east ar abl to make some of hi output more cheapli, while hi kei market ar now in china and india. "in our busi the market is absolut global, you can not imagin live with our size (of busi) even within an enlarg european union, (if we did that) we would need not 350 peopl but perhap just 150 or 200," he sai. it isn't just globalis that is hurt; the law in franc mean worker ar paid for a 39 hour week even though thei work just 35 hour. but at least there is still a steel industri. coal ha now total vanish and textil ar struggl. new busi ha been attract, but not enough to make up the differ.

that is on reason why peopl here ar not great fan of the eu, sai freder sawicki, a polit lectur at the univers of lill.

"in the region todai the unemploy rate is 12%, in some area it is 15%. thei don't see what europ is do for them, so there is a kind of euro sceptic, especi in the work class," he sai. which is strang becaus lill is at the crossroad of europ - if anywher should be benefit from the euro it is here. the euro wa design to increas trade within the eurozon, but the biggest increas in trade ha been with the rest of the world. much of that trade pass through the world's largest port, rotterdam, in holland, home to specialist crane maker huisman itrec. it crane help build oil rig and lift the sunken russian submarin kursk from the sea bed, but huisman itrec is now set up a factori in china, where cost ar cheaper and it main custom ar closer.

boss henk addink blame the low growth rate in europ for the lack of order closer to home. "in the us growth is someth like 6%, in china thei ar estim 15%, and in the eu it is more or less 1%," he sai. mr addink blame the euro for stifl demand. he much prefer the old currenc of europ, which move in relat to each countri's econom perform. in germani, industri is export more these dai, but the economi as a whole is onc again mire in slow growth and high unemploy. growth is like to peak thi year at just under 2%. in britain that would be a bad year; in germani it is on of the best in recent year. with germani make up a third of the eurozon's economi, thi is a major problem. if germani doesn't onc again becom the powerhous of europ, growth across the bloc is never go to be as strong as it could be. howev, at on factori near the dutch border thing ar chang.

the siemen plant at boscholt make cordless phone and emploi 2,000 staff. staff have start work an extra four hour a week for no extra pai, after siemen threaten to take the factori and their job to hungari. factori manag herbert stueker sai that he now hope to increas product "by nearli 30%". but germani need much more reform if all it industri is to compet with place such hungari or china. the govern is reform the labour market and cut the gener unemploy system, but the real solut is to cut the wage of low skill worker, sai helmut schneider, director of the institut for the studi of labour at bonn univers. "labour is too costli in germani, especi for the low skill labour and thi is the main problem. if we could solv that problem we could cut unemploy by half," he sai. the eu set itself the target of be the most effici economi in the world by 2010. four year into that process, and the target seem further awai than ever.
