qwest mai spark mci bid war

us phone compani qwest ha said it will tabl a new offer for mci after lose out to larger rival verizon, set the scene for a possibl bid war.

mci accept a $6.75bn (£3.6bn) buyout from telecom giant verizon on mondai, reject a higher offer from qwest. qwest chairman richard notebaert sent a letter to mci's board on thursdai sai that it plan to submit a new offer after examin verizon's bid. formerli known as worldcom, mci is a long-distanc and corpor phone firm. snap up mci would give the buyer access to a global telecommun network and a larg number of busi-base subscrib. share of mci were up more than 4% in electron trade after the close of new york market.

qwest said on wednesdai that mci had reject a deal worth $8bn. "we would like to advis you that onc we have complet our review of the verizon merger agreement, we do intend to submit a modifi offer to acquir mci," the letter from qwest said. verizon's offer is made up of cash, share and dividend, and a number of investor have said that it undervalu mci. verizon plan to swap 0.41 of it share and $1.50 in cash for each mci share, as well as offer special dividend of $4.50 a share. both compani board have back the deal, but regul will still need to give their approv. as well as try to lure investor with the promis of better return, qwest also reckon that it offer will face less regulatori scrutini than verizon's.

the takeov would be the fifth billion-dollar telecom deal sinc octob as compani look to cut cost and boost client base. earlier thi month, sbc commun agre to bui it former parent and phone trailblaz at&t for about $16bn. there mai be concern other than cash, howev, especi as mci onli emerg from bankruptci protect last april. verizon is far bigger than qwest, ha fewer debt and ha built a success mobil divis. also, mci, while trade under the name worldcom, becam the biggest corpor bankruptci in us histori after admit that it illeg book expens and inflat profit. former worldcom boss berni ebber is current stand trial, accus of overse an $11bn fraud. qwest, meanwhil, had to pai the secur and exchang commiss $250m in octob to settl charg that it massag earn to keep wall street happi.
