fiat chief take steer wheel

the chief execut of the fiat conglomer ha taken dai-to-dai control of it struggl car busi in an effort to turn it around.

sergio marchionn ha replac herbert demel as chief execut of fiat auto, with mr demel leav the compani. mr marchionn becom the fourth head of the busi - which is expect to make a 800m euro ($1bn) loss in 2004 - in as mani year. fiat underperform the market in europ last year, see flat sale.

the car busi ha made an oper loss in five of the last six year and wa forc to push back it break-even target from 2005 to 2006. the manag chang ar part of a wider shake-up of the busi follow fiat's resolut of it disput with gener motor. as part of a major restructur, fiat is to integr the maserati car compani - current own by ferrari - within it own oper. ferrari, in which fiat own a major stake, could be separ float on the stock market in either 2006 or 2007.

mr marchionn, who onli join the compani last year, said fiat auto wa now the "princip focu" of hi attent. "i have made the decis to take on the post of chief execut of the auto unit to speed up the compani's recoveri," he said. "a profound cultur transform is underwai follow a manag reorganis that ha deliv a more agil and effici structur," he ad.

although mr marchionn doe not have a background in the car industri, he ha been plai an increas role in the group's activ. last year, he said that a seri of new model, launch as part of the group's recoveri plan, had not boost revenu as much as hope. the car busi, best known for it alfa romeo marqu, is expect to make a loss of about 800m euro in 2004. sale ar expect to fall in 2005, fiat said thi week, as it exit unprofit area such as the rental car market. mr demel, a car industri veteran, took the helm in novemb 2003 after be recruit by former fiat chief execut giusepp morchio. mr morchio made a bid last year to becom chairman after the death of presid umberto agnelli. howev, thi wa reject by the found agnelli famili and mr morchio subsequ resign. earlier thi week, fiat reach an agreement with gm to dissolv an allianc which could have oblig gm to bui the italian firm outright. gm will pai fiat $2bn as part of the settlement.
