us regul to rule on pain drug

us food and drug regul will decid on fridai whether to recommend the sale of painkil that have been link to a high risk of heart attack and stroke.

the food and drug administr (fda) advisori panel will give it verdict after hear evid for three dai. the painkil - call cox-2 inhibitor - ar sold under brand name such as celebrex and vioxx. vioxx wa withdrawn from shop last year but merck said it would consid sell it if it get fda approv. the fda ha been ask to decid if the benefit to patient justifi the increas risk.

put vioxx back on the shelv is like to boost profit at merck and make easier ani legal battl with peopl who claim to have been injur by the drug, analyst said.

merck voluntarili stop sale of vioxx on 30 septemb, a move which caus the firm's fourth-quarter earn to slide to $1.1bn (£581m), from $1.4bn a year earlier. merck's share tumbl more than 10% on the new and the compani ha had to set asid million of dollar to cover the cost of vioxx-relat litig. alarm bell were rung by a research note call approv which show that the risk of heart attack and stroke doubl in patient who had been take the drug for at least 18 month. the cox-2 inhibitor were develop by drug compani, includ merck and pfizer, becaus thei caus user fewer stomach problem than other painkil.

pfizer is still sell it celebrex and bextra product, though investig have suggest that thei mai also be harm to the heart. merck's announc of a possibl reintroduct of vioxx caught analyst by surpris. merck's head of research peter kim said that it withdrew vioxx "base on the inform that wa avail to us at the time, know there were altern therapi". he went on to sai that thing have sinc chang in the light of new report. "given thi new inform, it is not clear that the cardiovascular risk observ in approv make vioxx uniqu in the class of similar drug market in the us," mr kim explain.

on thursdai, david graham from the fda's offic of drug safeti told the advisori panel that "there realli doesn't appear to be a need for cox-2" inhibitor. accord to calcul present to the us senat by dr graham in novemb, vioxx mai be link to as mani as to 56,000 american death. face stem critic for it handl of the vioxx case, the fda said on tuesdai that it will creat an independ bodi to overse the safeti of drug alreadi in the market place. european regul, meanwhil, rule on thursdai that patient who have had heart diseas or a stroke should not take cox-2 inhibitor. the european medicin agenc also said doctor should be "cautiou" about give the drug to patient who have risk factor for heart diseas.
