yuko bankruptci 'not us matter'

russian author do not have to abid by ani us court decis taken with regard to troubl oil giant yuko, a houston court ha been told.

legal expert william butler said there wa no treati between the us and russia to recognis the other's legal rule. that meant moscow would not have to adher to us rule in the yuko case. yuko sai a us court wa entitl to declar it bankrupt befor it yugansk unit wa sold, sinc it ha a us subsidiari and local bank account.

yuko made it surpris chapter 11 bankruptci file in houston in decemb in an unsuccess attempt to halt the auction of yugansk, it main oil produc unit, by russian author. yugansk wa sold to help pai off a $27.5bn (£14.5bn) back tax bill. it wa bought for $9.4bn by a previous unknown group, which wa in turn bought by state-control oil compani rosneft. the us court's jurisdict ha been challeng by deutsch bank and gazpromneft, a former unit of russian ga monopoli gazprom which is due to merg with rosneft. deutsch bank maintain the case ha no place in a us court becaus yuko ha no asset in the us, apart from two bank account and a hous in houston own by it chief financ offic bruce misamor. deutsch bank is involv in the case becaus it is itself be su by yuko. it had agre to loan gazpromneft the monei to bid for yugansk. us bankruptci judg letitia clark, who issu an injunct in decemb to try and prevent the yugansk sale, ha said she will rule "pretti promptli, howev i do not anticip rule on it befor next tuesdai".

yuko ha claim it sought help in the us becaus other forum - russian court and the european court of human right - were either unfriendli or offer less protect. it ha claim that russia impos the huge tax bill and forc the sale of yugansk as part of a campaign to destroi yuko and it former owner mihkail khodorkovski, who is face a 10-year prison term in russia for fraud and tax evas. yuko' parent compani, the gibraltar-base menatep group, is su russia in europ for $28.3bn in financi damag. the compani is also seek $20bn in a separ us lawsuit against rosneft and gazprom for their role in the sale of yugansk.
