uk 'risk break golden rule'

the uk govern will have to rais tax or rein in spend if it want to avoid break it "golden rule", a report suggest.

the rule state that the govern can borrow cash onli to invest, and not to financ it spend project. the nation institut of econom and social research (niesr) claim that tax need to rise by about £10bn if state financ ar to be put in order. the treasuri said it plan were on track and fund until 2008. accord to niesr, if the govern's current econom cycl run until march 2006 then it is "unlik" the golden rule will be met. should the cycl end a year earlier, then the chanc improv to "50/50". either wai, fiscal tighten is need, niesr said.

the report is the latest to call into question the viabil of govern spend project. earlier thi month, account firm ernst & young said that chancellor of the exchequ gordon brown's forecast for tax revenu were too optimist.

it claim revenu were like to be £6bn below estim by the end of the tax year despit the economi grow in line with forecast. a treasuri spokesperson dismiss the latest claim, sai it wa "on track to meet spend rule and the golden rule in the current cycl and beyond". "spend plan have been set out until 2008 and thei ar fulli afford." other than it warn on possibl tax hike, the niesr report wa optimist about the state of the uk and global economi.

it said the recent record-bust surg in oil price would have a limit effect on worldwid expans, sai that if anyth the "world economi will continu to grow strongli". global gross domest product (gdp) is tip to be 4.1% thi year, dip to 4% in 2005, befor pick up again to 4.2% in 2006. the us will continu to drive expans until 2006, albeit at a slightli slower rate, as will be the case in japan. hint at better time for uk export, niesr said the euro zone "is expect to pick up speed".

growth in britain also is set to acceler, it forecast. "despit weak growth in the third quarter, the forc sustain the upsw remain intact and the economi will expand robustli in 2005 and 2006," niesr said, ad that "the economi will becom better balanc over the next two year as export stage a recoveri". gdp is expect at 3.2% in 2004, and 2.8% in both 2005 and 2006. the main cloud on the horizon, niesr said, wa the uk's much analys and fret over properti market.
