cuba wind back econom clock

fidel castro's decis to ban all cash transact in us dollar in cuba ha onc more turn the spotlight on cuba's ail economi.

all convers between the us dollar and cuba's "convert" peso will from 8 novemb be subject to a 10% tax. cuban citizen, who receiv monei from oversea, and foreign visitor, who chang dollar in cuba, will be affect. critic of the measur argu that it is a step backward, reflect the cuban presid's desir to increas hi control of the economi and to clamp down on privat enterpris. in a live televis broadcast announc the measur, presid castro's chief aid said it wa necessari becaus of the unit state' increas "econom aggress". "the ten percent oblig appli exclus to the dollar by virtu of the situat creat by the new measur of the us govern to suffoc our countri," he said.

the bush administr ha taken an increasingli harsh line on cuba in recent month. presid bush's govern, which ha been a strong support of the 40-year-old trade embargo on cuba, introduc even tighter restrict on cuba in mai.

cuban live in the us ar now limit to on visit to cuba everi three year and thei can onli send monei to their immedi rel. a lead expert on the cuban economi sai that castro's tax plan smack more of a desper econom measur than a polit gestur. "i think it is primarili an effort to rais some cash," sai jose barrionuevo, head of strategi for latin american emerg market for barclai capit. "it underscor the fact that the economi is in veri bad shape and the govern is look for sourc of revenu."

the tax will hit the famili of cuban exil hardest as thei benefit from the monei their displac rel send home. thi monei, known as remitt, can amount to as much as $1bn a year. those remain in cuba will have to pai the tax. their rel abroad mai choos to send monei in other currenc which ar not subject to the tax, such as euro, or increas their dollar payment to compens. howev, mani of cuban's poorest citizen could be wors off as a result. the tax will also affect the two million tourist who visit cuba everi year, particularli those american who continu to defi a ban on travel there.

cuba's tourist industri ha been on of it few econom success stori over the last ten year and, accord to the un econom commiss for latin america, is now worth $3bn to the countri.

the tax is design to provid much-need revenu for cuba's cash-strap economi. cuba badli need dollar to pai for essenti item such as food, fuel and medicin. much of cuba's basic infrastructur is in a state of disrepair. in recent week, cuba ha suffer it most seriou power cut in a decad and there have also been water shortag in part of the island. cuba's economi had stage a modest recoveri dure the mid 1990s as the collaps of the soviet union forc it to embrac foreign capit, decentralis trade and permit limit privat enterpris. howev, a declin in foreign tourism sinc 2002, period hurrican and the increas cost of import oil have put a strain on the economi. it ha howev yet to be seen if the tax will provid a solut to the govern's econom problem. the tax could fuel an activ black market in currenc trade, mr barrionuevo said. "the main impact could be that it will creat a black market which you typic see in countri, like venezuela, which have restrict on capit," he sai. mr barrioneuvo sai the measur could be drop if it ha a damag effect on econom activ. "it is intend to be a perman measur but i am not sure it can last too long."
