bush to outlin 'toughest' budget

presid bush is to send hi toughest budget propos to date to the us congress, seek larg cut in domest spend to lower the deficit.

about 150 feder program could be cut or ax altogeth as part of a $2.5 trillion (£1.3 trillion) packag aim at curb the giant us budget deficit. defenc spend will rise, howev, while the propos exclud the cost of continu militari oper in iraq. vice-presid dick chenei said the budget wa the "tightest" so far.

at the heart of the administr's fifth budget, present to congress on mondai, is an auster packag of domest measur. these would see discretionari spend rise below the project level of inflat.

such belt-tighten is design to tackl the massiv budget deficit increas of presid bush's first term. mr chenei admit that the budget wa the toughest of the bush presid but argu it wa "fair and respons". "it is not someth we have done with a meat ax, nor ar we suddenli turn our back on the most needi peopl in our societi," he said. the war in iraq and afghanistan, increas expenditur on nation secur after 9/11 and the 2001 recess wipe out the budget surplu inherit by presid bush in 2001 and turn it into a record deficit. the shortfal is project to rise to $427bn in 2005.

educ, environment protect and transport initi ar set to be scale back as a first step toward reduc the deficit to $230bn by 2009.

most controversi, the govern is seek to cut the medicaid budget, which provid health care to the nation's poorest, by $45bn and to reduc farm subsidi by $587m. spend on defenc and homeland secur is set to increas, although not by as much as origin plan. presid bush's propos would see the pentagon's budget rise by $19bn to $419.3bn while homeland secur would get an extra $2bn.

the budget doe not includ the cost of run militari oper in iraq and afghanistan, for which the administr in expect to seek an extra $80bn from congress later thi year.

also not featur in the propos is the cost of fund the administr's radic propos overhaul of social secur provis. some expect believ thi could requir borrow of up to $4.5bn trillion over a twenti year period. despit the republican hold a major in both hous of congress, the propos will be fierc contest over the next few month.

john mccain, a republican senat, said he wa pleas the administr wa prepar to tackl the deficit. "with the deficit that we ar now run, i am glad the presid is come over with a veri auster budget," he said. howev, democrat senat kent conrad said the propos expos the countri to huge financi commit beyond 2009. "the cost of everyth he [presid bush] advoc explod," he said.
