mix reaction to man utd offer

share in manchest unit were up over 5% by noon on mondai follow a new offer from malcolm glazer.

the board of man utd is expect to meet earli thi week to discuss the latest propos from the us tycoon that valu the club at £800m ($1.5bn). manchest unit reveal on sundai that it had receiv a detail propos from mr glazer. a senior sourc at the club told the bbc: "thi time it's differ". the board is oblig to consid thi deal. but the man utd support club urg the club to reject the new deal. manchest unit past and present footbal eric cantona and ol gunnar solskjaer, and club manag sir alex ferguson, have lent their back to the support' group, sharehold unit. thei have all spoken out against the bid.

a spokesman for the support club said: "i can't see ani differ (compar to mr glazer's previou propos) other than £200m less debt. "he isn't bring ani monei into the club; he'll us our monei to bui it."

mr glazer's latest move is be led by mr glazer's two son, avi and joel, accord to the financi time. a propos wa receiv by david gill, unit's chief execut, at the end of last week, pitch at about 300p a share. david cum, head of uk equiti for standard life invest, said he believ a "well fund" 300p a share bid would be enough for mr glazer to take control of the club. "i do not think there is anyth that manchest unit fan can do about it," he told the bbc. "thei can complain about it but it is curtain for them. thei mai not want him but thei ar go to get him." the us tycoon, who ha been woo the club for the last 12 month, ha approach the unit board with "detail propos", it ha confirm.

mr glazer, who own the tampa bai buccan team, hope thi will lead to a formal bid be accept. he is believ to have increas the amount of equiti in the new propos, though it is not clear by how much. for hi propos to succe, he need the support of unit's largest sharehold, the irish horserac tycoon jp mcmanu and john magnier. thei own 29% of unit through their cubic express invest vehicl. mr glazer and hi famili hold a stake of 28.1%. but it is not yet known whether mr mcmanu and mr magnier would support a glazer bid. nm rothschild, the invest bank, is advis mr glazer, accord to the financi time. hi previou advis, jpmorgan, quit last year when mr glazer went ahead and vote against the appoint of three unit director to the board, against it advic. but the ft said it thought jp morgan mai still have had some role in financ mr glazer's latest financi propos.
