gold fall on imf sale concern

the price of gold ha fallen after the intern monetari fund (imf) said it will look at wai of us it gold reserv to provid debt relief.

by revalu it hold, the imf mai be abl to sell billion of dollar of gold and us the cash to cancel debt ow by the world's poorest nation. the plan wa put forward by g7 financ minist over the weekend. the price of gold fell to $413.50 an ounc in asia, befor rebound slightli in earli european trade.

imf boss rodrigo rato wa ask by g7 minist to carri out a studi into the feasibl of revalu and sell gold reserv.

he is expect to present hi conclus at an imf meet in washington dure april. "whatev happen the market is go to be disconcert and on the back foot until the april imf meet," said john read, an analyst at ub. the imf valu it gold reserv at between $40 and $50 an ounc, a price that wa fix in the 1970s and is about a tenth of the metal's current market valu. the imf ha 3,217 tonn of gold, or about 113.5m ounc. bring the book price of the gold in line with market valu would boost the imf's balanc sheet, give it more monei to distribut.

thi idea ha been put forward befor, but there now seem to be a more commit polit drive to address the issu of global poverti. "thi is the first time there ha been a mention of the us of gold in a g7 communiqu&#233; for achiev debt relief," said uk chancellor of the exchequ gordon brown. at their meet in london, g7 financ minist back plan to write off up to 100% of the debt ow by some of the world's poorest countri. mr brown said the meet would be rememb as "the 100% debt relief summit". while debt relief seem to have jump to the top of the global agenda, not everyon is convinc that sell imf gold is the best wai forward. the us, which can veto ani plan to sell imf gold should it so choos, said it is look at other wai of solv the problem. "the us is not convinc that's the necessari wai to do it," said treasuri under secretari john taylor. canada, a kei gold produc, also express reserv.
