us bank boss hail 'geniu' smith

us feder reserv chairman alan greenspan ha given a speech at a scottish church in honour of the pioneer economist, adam smith.

he deliv the 14th adam smith lectur in kirkcaldi, fife. the adam smith lectur celebr the author of 1776's wealth of nation, which becam a bibl of capit. dr greenspan wa invit by chancellor gordon brown, whose minist father john us to preach at the st bryce kirk church. mr brown introduc dr greenspan to the 400 invit guest as the "the world's greatest economist". dr greenspan, 79, who ha been in the uk to attend the g7 meet in london, said the world could never repai the debt of gratitud it ow to smith, whose geniu he compar to that of mozart.

he said the philosoph wa a "tower contributor to the modern world". "kirkcaldi, the birthplac in 1723 of adam smith and, by extens, of modern econom, is also of cours, where your chancellor wa rear. "i am led to ponder to what extent the chancellor's renown econom and financi skill ar the result of exposur to the sublimin intellect-enhanc eman in thi area." he continu: "smith reach far beyond the insight of hi predecessor to frame a global view of how market econom, just then emerg, work. "in so do he support chang in societ organis that were to measur enhanc standard of live."

dr greenspan said smith's revolutionari philosophi on human self-interest, laissez-fair econom and competit had been a forc for good in the world. "the incred insight of a hand of intellectu of the enlighten - especi with smith toil in the environ of kirkcaldi - creat the modern vision of peopl free to choos and to act accord to their individu self-interest," he said. follow hi lectur, dr greenspan - who receiv an honorari knighthood from the queen at balmor in 2002 - wa award an honorari fellowship of the royal societi of edinburgh. he later open an exhibit dedic to smith in the atrium of fife colleg of further and higher educ. joyc johnston, princip of the colleg, said: "it is veri fit that the world's premier economist deliv thi lectur in tribut to the world's first economist." dr greenspan - who becam chairman of the feder reserv for an unpreced fifth term in june 2004 - will step down in januari next year. he ha serv under presid georg w bush, bill clinton, georg bush, and ronald reagan. he wa also chairman of the council of econom advisor to gerald ford.
