sec to rethink post-enron rule

the us stock market watchdog's chairman ha said he is will to soften tough new us corpor govern rule to eas the burden on foreign firm.

in a speech at the london school of econom, william donaldson promis "sever initi". european firm have protest that us law introduc after the enron scandal make wall street list too costli. the us regul said foreign firm mai get extra time to compli with a kei claus in the sarban-oxlei act.

the act come into forc in mid-2005. it oblig all firm with us stock market list to make declar, which, critic sai, will add substanti to the cost of prepar their annual account.

firm that break the new law could face huge fine, while senior execut risk jail term of up to 20 year. mr donaldson said that although the act doe not provid exempt for foreign firm, the secur and exchang commiss (sec) would "continu to be sensit to the need to accomod foreign structur and requir". there ar few, if ani, who disagre with the intent of the act, which oblig chief execut to sign a statement take respons for the accuraci of the account. but european firm with secondari list in new york have object - argu that the complianc cost outweigh the benefit of a dual list. the act also appli to firm with more than 300 us sharehold, a situat mani firm without us list could find themselv in.

the 300-sharehold threshold ha drawn anger as it effect block the most obviou remedi, a delist. mr donaldson said the sec would "consid whether there should be a new approach to the deregistr process" for foreign firm unwil to meet us requir.

"we should seek a solut that will preserv investor protect" without turn the us market into "on with no exit", he said. he reveal that hi staff were alreadi weigh up the merit of delai the implement of the act's least popular measur - section 404 - for foreign firm. seen as particularli costli to implement, section 404 oblig chief execut to take respons for the firm's intern control by sign a complianc statement in the annual account. the sec ha alreadi delai implement of thi claus for smaller firm - includ us on - with market capitalis below $700m (£374m).

a deleg of european firm visit the sec in decemb to press for chang, the financi time report.

it wa led by digbi jone, director gener of the uk's confeder of british industri (cbi) and includ repres of basf, siemen and cadburi schwepp. complianc cost ar alreadi believ to be make firm wari of us list. air china pick the london stock exchang for it secondari list in it $1.07bn (£558m) stock market debut last month. there ar also rumour that two chines state-run bank - china construct bank and bank of china - have abandon plan for multi-billion dollar list in new york later thi year. instead, the cost of sarban-oxlei ha persuad them to stick to a singl list in hong kong, accord to press report in china.
