ukrain trim privatis check

ukrain is to review "dozen" of state asset sale as the countri's new administr tackl corrupt.

the figur announc by presid viktor yushchenko is less than the 3,000 case mention last week, but will cover mani of the biggest deal. ukrain recent oust long-serv leader leonid kuchma and ha said it want closer european union link. in a separ statement, the eu said that the us should back ukrain's entri into the world trade organis. the comment came as viktor yushchenko prepar to head to brussel to meet with us presid georg w bush and other north atlant treati organis (nato) leader. he is the onli non-nato member leader invit to attend the summit.

mr yushchenko recent defeat moscow-back presidenti candid and prime minist viktor yanukovych at the poll, and ha made no secret of hi wish to fight corrupt and make ukrain more transpar.

earlier thi month, new prime minist yulia tymoshenko said as mani as 3,000 firm mai have their privatis put under the spotlight. her comment rais concern among a number of investor and mr yushchenko wa seen on mondai as try to sooth their frai nerv. "we acknowledg that busi in ukrain is now shape and 98% of privatis were carri out accord to the law," mr yushchenko said on mondai. "we have trust in thi busi and want to defend it by law," he continu, ad that ani review would focu on "dozen of compani, not hundr or thousand". he cite last year's sale of ukrainian steel produc krivorizhst as on that had rais concern. it wa sold in june 2004 to a consortium that includ viktor pinchuk, son-in-law of former-presid kuchma, and rinat akhmetov, the countri's richest man, for $800m (£424m) - despit other higher offer.

vice-prime minist oleg rybachuk call on the eu to recognis the step that ukrain wa take, fear that should the countri not be reward for it effort there mai be a backlash against closer relat with brussel. he said that while he understood that ukrain wa not readi for eu membership, the countri need to see progress on topic such as trade and visa requir. "we deserv an honest respons," mr rybachuk told the associ press in an interview. "we understand the difficulti. we refus to understand doubl standard." ukrain mai find it ha a sympathet ear in brussel "the eu ha reiter that we support (ukrain's) fast access to the wto and if possibl we would like that to happen some time dure the year," said claud veron-revil, a spokesman for eu trade commission peter mandelson. "we have said as much to the american. we feel that it is import for us all to pull togeth for ukrain to be allow into the wto. mr yushchenko wa care not to turn hi back on russia, which border the countri to the east, sai it wa import to maintain 'pragmat' ti with moscow. "russia is ukrain's etern strateg partner," mr yushchenko said.
