oil compani get russian setback

intern oil and mine compani have react cautious to russia's decis to bar foreign firm from natur resourc tender in 2005.

us oil giant exxon said it did not plan to take part in a new tender on a project for which it had previous sign a preliminari agreement. miner highland gold said it regret ani limit on privatis while bp, a big investor, declin to comment. onli firm at least 51% russian-own will be permit to bid.

the feder natur resourc agenc said "the govern is interest in let russian compani develop strateg resourc". the foreign ownership issu will be dealt with accord to russia's competit law, natur resourc minist yuri trutnev wa quot as sai by the interfax new agenc. no further detail were given, with mr trutnev suggest that russia mai decid on a case-by-case basi. observ said that the move mai repres a shift in polici, as the administr of vladimir putin put the protect of nation interest abov free market dynam. russia recent wrest back control of a larg chunk of it oil industri from stock-market list compani yuko, a move that prompt call of outrag from mani investor.

analyst warn that it wa still too earli to draw too mani conclus from thi new set of propos.

compani echo thi sentiment, sai that thei would requir more inform befor ring the alarm bell. "it's not good. but it is veri understand," said al breach, an economist at ub brunswick. "but if the invest climat is stabl - that's much more import. "foreign of cours would like to have free entri but... thi is not the end of the world." a number of other nation, includ mexico, saudi arabia and kuwait, protect their nation resourc from foreign firm. what ha surpris observ is that sinc the collaps of commun russia ha been court foreign invest.

bp spent $7.5bn to creat russian-regist oil compani tnk-bp, and ha a partnership to develop the sakhalin 5 petroleum field with state-own rosneft. exxon, the world's largest oil compani, ha sign preliminari agreement to develop the sakhalin 3 field. compani spokesman glenn waller said exxon still consid the deal valid, despit russia invit new offer for the land block. accord to mr waller, exxon "were not plan to bid at a new tender anywai". "we regret the ministri ha taken such a decis," said ivan kulakov, deputi chairman of highland gold - a mine firm that ha the motto "bring russia's gold to market". "it would be a shame if that ha a neg impact on the invest climat." other firm that have been link with invest in russia includ franc's total, the us-base chevrontexaco, and miner barrick gold.
