man utd to open book to glazer

manchest unit's board ha agre to give us tycoon malcolm glazer access to it book.

earlier thi month, mr glazer present the board with detail propos on an offer to bui the footbal club. in a statement, the club said it would allow mr glazer "limit due dilig" to give him the opportun to take the propos on to a formal bid. but it said it continu to oppos mr glazer's plan, call hi assumpt "aggress" and hi plan "damag". mani of manchest unit's support own share in the club, and the fan-base group sharehold unit is strongli oppos to ani takeov by mr glazer. about 300 fan protest outsid the old trafford ground two dai ago.

rival local club manchest citi ha plead with visit fan not to protest insid it ground when the two team plai a televis match on sundai.

manchest unit's respons come as littl surpris, as the board made clear. "ani board ha a respons to consid a bona fide offer propos," the club said in it statement. should it becom a firm offer, it should be at a price that "the board is like to regard as fair" and on term which "mai be deliver". but it also stress that it stai oppos to mr glazer's propos. "the board continu to believ that mr glazer's busi plan assumpt ar aggress," the statement said, "and the direct and indirect financi strain on the busi could be damag." whether or not the bid is attract in monetari term, in the case of manchest unit mani investor hold the stock for sentiment rather than financi reason. at present, mr glazer and hi famili hold a 28.1% stake, make them manchest unit's second biggest sharehold. thei own the success tampa bai buccan american footbal team base in florida. if the famili make a formal offer, thei will need the support of the club's biggest sharehold.

irish hors race millionair jp mcmanu and john magnier own 29% of unit through their invest vehicl cubic express, and have yet to express a view on the bid approach.

a group of five mp ar call on the depart of trade and industri to block ani takeov of the club by the us footbal magnat on public interest ground. thei have sign a hous of common motion, and toni lloyd, the manchest central mp, whose constitu includ the club's old trafford ground, ha pledg to take the matter "to toni blair if necessari". the common motion sai "ani takeov design to transform the club into a privat compani would be against the interest of those support and footbal". howev, the dti ha dismiss the propos. a spokesman said the depart did not believ there wa a case for chang the enterpris act so that takeov of footbal club could be look at on non-competit ground. mr glazer's offer valu the club at £800m ($1.5bn). pitch at 300p per share, it also reli less on debt to financ it than an earlier approach from the us tycoon, which wa reject out of hand. manchest unit share close at 270.25p on fridai, down 3.75p on the dai.
