card fraudster 'target web'

new safeguard on credit and debit card payment in shop ha led fraudster to focu on internet and phone payment, an anti-fraud agenc ha said.

anti-fraud consult retail decis sai 'card-not-present' fraud, where good ar paid for onlin or by phone, ha risen sinc the start of 2005. the introduct of 'chip and pin' card ha tighten secur for transact on the high street. but the clampdown ha caus fraudster to chang tack, retail decis said.

the introduct of chip and pin card aim to cut down on credit card fraud in store by ask shopper to verifi their ident with a confidenti person pin number, instead of a signatur. retail decis chief execut carl clump told the bbc that there wa "no doubt" that chip and pin would "reduc card fraud in the card-present environ". "howev, it is import to monitor what happen in the card-not-present environ as fraudster will turn their attent to the internet, mail order, telephon order and interact tv," he said. "we have seen a 22% uplift in card-not-present fraud here in the uk... sinc the start of the year. "fraud doesn't just disappear, it mutat to the next weakest link in the chain," he said.

retail decis' survei on the implement of chip and pin found that shopper had adapt easili to the new system, but that bank' perform in distribut the new card had been patchi, at best. "the main issu is that not everyon ha the pin thei need," said mr clump. nearli two third - 65% - of the 1,000 peopl interview said thei had us chip and pin to make payment. of these, 83% were happi with the experi, though nearli a quarter said thei struggl to rememb their pin number. howev, onli 34% said thei had receiv replac card with the necessari 'chip' technolog from all their card provid. furthermor, 16% said that none of their card had been replac, while 30% said onli some had. uk shopper spent £5.3bn on plastic card in 2003, the last full year for which figur ar avail from the associ of payment clear servic (apac). altogeth, card scam on uk-issu card total £402.4m in 2003. card-not-present fraud rose an annual 6% to £116.4m, make it the biggest categori even then. within thi, internet fraud total £43m, apac' figur show.
