g7 back africa debt relief plan

g7 financ minist have back plan to write off up to 100% of the debt of some of the world's poorest countri.

uk chancellor gordon brown said the london meet of the world's seven richest nation would be rememb as "the 100% debt relief summit". some 37 countri could benefit after a case-by-case review by bodi includ the world bank and the imf, he said. but the us sai it cannot support mr brown's intern financ facil to boost aid to develop countri. bbc correspond said the meet had produc some movement toward the uk's ambit, but much work wa need. mr brown said it wa a major breakthrough for the intern organis to offer up to 100% multilater debt relief - "the vast bulk" of monei ow by the poorest countri.

"we could be at the begin of the final stage of the process where the debt that were ow by the poorest countri, built up over 20 or 30 year, debt that ar simpli unpay in the real world, ar final taken care of," he said. he ad: "it is the richest countri hear the voic of the poor." but he said thei would insist on govern reform and the need for transpar, tackl corrupt and open from both the poorest and richest nation. bbc correspond patrick bartlett said while it wa an agreement in principl, the organis involv now have to look at how it would work in practic. oxfam senior polici advis max lawson welcom the statement and said g7 minist had "pass the first hurdl of 2005".

but he ad: "thei need to move quickli to turn their propos into real chang for the world's poorest. "two million children will die needlessli between now and the next meet in april. if rich countri ar go to keep their promis to tackl obscen poverti thei need deliv - and deliv quickli." talk ar continu on how to financ increas oversea develop assist. the intern monetari fund (imf) is to look at a propos to us it gold suppli to help the debt relief effort when it meet in april. mr brown said g7 minist had agre to defer debt interest payment and repay for some countri affect by the tsunami until the end of 2005. but uk plan for an intern financ facil (iff) to help deal with debt in the develop world have not been agre. mr brown want to provid $10bn (£5.38bn) a year over a decad, us g7 back so the monei could be borrow up front on financi market.

it is a kei element of hi propos for a modern version of the marshal plan, which brought us aid to rebuild europ after world war ii, for the develop world. mr brown said it wa "win support everi dai" and said a programm had been agre to draw up more detail in time for the g8 summit in juli. but us treasuri under-secretari john taylor said the us could not support the iff becaus of it "legisl process". "the us is complet commit to poverti reduct and provid financ to do that," he said. "but thi particular mechan doe not work for the unit state. it work for other countri, and that is fine." earlier, he told bbc radio 4's todai programm the us had increas support for africa in the past four year from $1.1bn per year to $4.6bn per year. but south africa financ minist trevor manuel told the bbc's talk point programm what wa need wa on approach, with all wealthi nation on board. he said much of the monei pledg by the us had not yet been dispens.

the uk ha made poverti in the poorest nation a kei theme for it 2005 presid of the group of eight (g8), which compris the g7 and russia. the g8 countri will meet at gleneagl in scotland. at a dinner on fridai night, former south african presid nelson mandela back mr brown's plan when he urg the financ chief to write-off african debt and provid an extra $50bn (£26.69bn) a year in aid for the next decad. talk also centr on the impact of the rise economi of china and india, the us budget and trade deficit, how the us, europ and japan can act to boost global econom growth, and hiv/aid. g7 minist call for more flexibl in intern exchang rate and said "excess volatil" would imped econom growth. repres from china, india, russia, south africa and brazil were invit to attend some of the session. a g8 summit is set to take place in juli.
