q&a: malcolm glazer and man utd

the battl for control of manchest unit ha taken anoth turn after the club confirm it had receiv a fresh takeov approach from us busi tycoon malcolm glazer.

no formal offer ha been made yet, but manchest unit have confirm thei have receiv a "detail propos" from the us entrepreneur which could lead to a bid. report have put the offer at 300p per share, which would valu manchest unit at about £800m ($1.5bn). the approach by the 76-year-old owner of the tampa bai buccan american footbal team is reportedli be led by hi two son, avi and joel. a previou approach to the unit board by mr glazer in octob last year wa turn down. howev, the bbc ha learnt that the club is unlik to reject the latest plan out of hand.

mr glazer's previou offer involv borrow larg amount of monei to financ ani takeov. that would have left the club with debt level which were deem "not... in the best interest of the compani" by manchest unit's board when thei reject hi approach last year. howev, mr glazer's latest offer is report to have cut the amount of borrow need by £200m.

while unit's board mai be cast a seriou ey over mr glazer's latest propos, support remain fierc oppos to ani deal.

support' group sharehold unit - which ha prove adept in ralli opposit to mr glazer's campaign - said it would fight ani move. "manchest unit ar a debt-free compani. we don't want to fall into debt and we don't need to fall into debt," sharehold unit's sean bone told the bbc. unit's player also appear unhappi at the prospect of a takeov. "a lot of peopl want the club's interest to be with peopl who have grown up with the club and got it interest at heart," rio ferdinand told bbc radio five live. "no-on know what thi gui will be bring to the tabl."

the kei to ani success bid will be attract the support of unit's largest sharehold, the irish hors race tycoon john magnier and jp mcmanu. through their cubic express vehicl thei own 28.9% of the club. mr glazer own 28.1%. joe mclean, a footbal specialist at account firm grant thornton, said the support of mr magnier and mr mcmanu wa "utterli crucial". "mr glazer's bid will not proce without their support and thei have previous indic that thei ar hold their stake as an invest. "if that's the case, the share will therefor need a price attach of about 300 penc, mayb 305. "if that's the case then mr glazer might well secur their support - if he doe, thi bid could well go ahead."

inde it is. malcolm glazer wa littl-known in the uk until he start to build up hi stake in manchest unit in late 2003. in februari 2004 he said he wa "consid" whether to bid for the club. no bid emerg, but mr glazer continu to increas hi hold in the club. in octob 2004, manchest unit said thei had receiv a "preliminari approach", which turn out to have come from mr glazer. howev, the board reject the move becaus of the amount of debt it would involv. at the club's annual gener meet in novemb, mr glazer took reveng by us hi hefti stake in the club to oust three director from the board. legal advis mauric watkin, commerci director andi anson and non-execut director philip yea were vote out, against the wish of chief execut david gill. but the move led to banker jp morgan and public relat firm brunswick withdraw from the glazer bid team.
