make your offic work for you

our mission to brighten up your work live continu - and thi time, we're take a long hard look at your offic.

over the next few month, our panel of expert will be listen to your gripe about where you work, and suggest wai to make your workspac more effici, more congeni or simpli prettier. thi week, we're hear from mariann petersen, who is plan to convert a barn in sweden into a base for her freelanc write work. click on the link under her photograph to read her stori, and then scroll down to see what the panel have to sai. and if you want to take part in the seri, go to the bottom of the stori to find out how to get in touch.

work from home present a multitud of challeng. understand your work person allow you to work in term of your own style. do you feel confid about your work output without confer with other? ar you abl to retain disciplin and self motiv to get the job done? do you build on the idea of other - or ar you a more introspect problem solver?. in order for a virtual offic to succe, keep the boundari between work and home life is essenti. it mai be us to be quit rigid about who is allow to visit, and to keep strict offic hour. refer to the space as work will give those around you a clear messag that thi is profession space. it is imper to consid how to bring the outsid world into your, keep up to date with develop and maintain a network. isol work environ mean thi ha to be carefulli thought out, and a strategi ha to be develop that suit both your person and your industri. join profession group or form a loos associ of like-mind peopl mai assist. it is us to structur these meet in advanc as often thei get releg to less import statu when time ar busi - with the danger that when the workload eas, thei have to be resurrect.



prior to ani interior work be undertaken it is essenti to ensur that the roof and wall ar made water-and-weather-tight, and the structur is check for stabil. it appear that the roof truss mai need repair and addit brace.

ideal, the roof should be replac with an outer materi in keep with the charact and locat of the barn. thi would also allow for a well-insul inner skin to be provid which should be light colour. it is like that the most effici wai of heat the build is with electr. in order to provid thi the owner will need to have an electr engin calcul the potenti heat, power and light load to make sure the main suppli and distribut capac ar adequ. ideal, it would be good to have a main water suppli and some mean of drainag for toilet and wash facil. the wall should be dry line with a singl skin of plasterboard laid over rockwool slab which will allow good wall insul and the power and light circuit to be conceal, and the wall should be paint in a light colour. the owner mention she might lai a new floor over the exist plank; thi will improv the insul and offer a level surfac. i would suggest lai new oak veneer plank which can work in with the charact of the barn. as for light, consid a combin of floor mount uplight, wall light (wall washer) and select downlight. us a combin of main voltag fluoresc fit and dimmabl unit which can vari the light level and the feel of the interior.



pleas click on the link to the right here to see my idea for mariann's barn.

the layout of thi offic reflect the need to have a work area and a more relax meet space. larg desk space and extens storag would combin with tub chair to maximis the space avail. the finish chosen for the furnitur will need to reflect the unusu set, while the light and temperatur control mechan us will further influenc the workplac.



regard access the internet via the connect in the main hous, your plan of go wireless is sensibl. a wireless router/access point in the hous with a wireless lan card in the pc in the renov area mai be suffici. howev, import point to consid ar the distanc between the two build and the natur of the materi through which the signal have to pass, which could result in a weak signal strength. you mai requir an addit wireless access point in the renov area. your local it supplier will be abl to advis on thi. if you haven't alreadi invest in robust firewal and anti-viru softwar, it is essenti to do so, to protect your invest. to realli take advantag of wireless technolog, you might consid a laptop comput and a dock station with extern mous and monitor. or you could us on of the new tablet comput, which allow you to write directli on the screen and convert into text with built-in hand recognit softwar. and final, you will save monei and space by consid a multi-function product for print, scan, copi and fax.
