market unfaz by aurora setback

as the aurora limp back to it dock on 20 januari, a blizzard of photo and interview seem to add up to an unambigu tale of woe.

the ship had anoth slice of bad luck to add to it histori of health scare and technic troubl. and it owner, p&o cruis - now part of the huge us carniv corpor - wa look at a signific slice chop off thi year's profit and a potenti pr fiasco. no-on, howev, seem to have told the stock market. the warn of a five-cent hit to 2005 earn came just 24 hour after on of the world's biggest invest bank had up it target for carniv's share price, from £35 to £36.20. other investor bare blink, and by 1300 gmt carniv's share in london were down a singl penni, or 0.03%, at £32.26.

why the mismatch between the public percept and the market's respons? "the aurora issu had been an ongo on for some time," sai deutsch bank's simon champion. "it wa clearli a sourc of uncertainti for the compani - it wa a long cruis, after all. but the stock market is veri good at treat these issu as on-off event."

despit it string of bad luck, he point out, aurora is just on vessel in a larg carniv fleet, the uk's p&o princess group have been merg into the much larger us firm in 2003. and gener speak, carniv ha a reput for keep it ship pretti much on schedul. "carniv ha an incred strong track record," mr champion.

similarli, analyst expect the impact on the rest of the cruis busi to be limit. the hundr of disappoint passeng who have now had to give up the opportun to spend the next three month on the aurora have got both a refund and a credit for anoth cruis. that should mitig some of the pr risk, both for carniv and it main competitor, royal caribbean. "while not common, cancel for technic reason ar not entir unusu in the industri," wrote analyst from citigroup smith barnei in a note to client on fridai. "moreov, such event typic have a limit impact on book and price for futur cruis." after all, the aurora incid mai be big new in the uk - but for carniv custom elsewher it's unlik to make too much of a splash.

assum that citigroup is right, and demand stai solid, the structur of the industri also work in carniv's favour. in the wake of p&o princess's takeov by carniv, the busi is now to a great extent a duopoli. given the expens of build, outfit and run a cruis ship, "slow suppli growth" is a certainti, said david ander at merril lynch on thursdai. in other word, if you do want a cruis, your option ar limit. and with carniv remain the market leader, it look set to keep sell the ticket - no matter what happen to the ill-fate aurora in the futur.
