the 'tick budget' face the us

the budget propos laid out by the administr of us presid georg w bush ar highli controversi. the washington-base econom polici institut, which tend to be critic of the presid, look at possibl fault line. us politician and citizen of all polit persuas ar in for a dose of shock therapi. without major chang in current polici and polit prejudic, the feder budget simpli cannot hold togeth. new coverag of the bush budget will be domin by debat about spend cut, but the fact is these will be larg cut in small program. from the standpoint of the big fiscal trend, the cut ar gratuit and the big budget train wreck is yet to come. under direct threat will be the feder govern's abil to make good on it debt to the social secur trust fund. as soon as 2018, the fund will begin to requir some cash return on it bond hold in order to financ all promis benefit.

the trigger for the come shock will be rise feder debt, which will grow in 10 year, by conserv estim, to more than half the nation's total annual output.

thi upward trend will forc increas borrow by the feder govern, put upward pressur on interest rate face by consum and busi. even now, a grow share of us borrow is from abroad. the us govern cannot financ it oper without heavi borrow from the central bank of japan and china, among other nation. thi doe not bode well for us influenc in the world. the declin of the dollar is a warn sign that current econom trend cannot continu. the dollar is alreadi sink. befor too long, credit market ar like to react, and interest rate will creep upward. that will be the shock.

interest-sensit industri will feel pain immedi - sector such as hous, automobil, other consum durabl, agricultur, and small busi. some will recal the new footag of angri farmer drive their heavi equip around the us capitol in the late 1970s. there will be no need for constitut amend to balanc the budget. the public outcri will forc congress to act. whether it will act wise is anoth matter. how did thi happen?

by definit, the deficit mean too littl revenu and too much spend - but thi neutral descript doesn't adequ captur the current situat. feder revenu ar at 1950s level, while spend remain where it ha been in recent decad - much higher. in addit, the unit state ha two signific militari mission. the bush administr's chosen remedi is the least feasibl on. reduc domest spend, or elimin "wast, fraud and abus" is toothless becaus thi slice of the budget is too small to solv the problem. inde, if congress were rash enough to balanc the budget in thi wai, there would hardli be ani such spend left. law enforc, space explor, environment clean-up, econom develop, the small busi administr, hous, veteran' benefit, aid to state and local govern would all but disappear. it's fantasi to think these routin govern function could be slash. the biggest spend growth area ar defenc (includ homeland secur), and health care for the elderli and the poor. to some extent, increas in these area ar inevit. the us popul is ag, and the nation doe face genuin threat in the world. but seriou save can onli be found where the big monei is. save in health care spend that do not come at the expens of health can onli be achiev with wholesal reform of the entir system, public and privat. brute forc budget cut or spend cap would ill-serv the nation's elderli and indig.

on the revenu side, the lion's share of revenu lost to tax cut enact sinc 2000 will have to be replac.

some rearrang could hold mani peopl harmless and focu most of the pain on those with rel high incom. final, blind allegi to a balanc budget will have to be abandon. there is no good reason to fixat on it, anywai. moder deficit and slowli rise feder debt can be sustain indefinit. borrow for invest in educ and infrastructur that pai off in futur year make sens. the sooner we face that realiti, the sooner workabl reform can be pursu. first on the list should be tax reform to rais revenu, simplifi the tax code, and restor some fair erod by the bush tax cut. second should be a dispassion re-evalu of the huge increas in defenc spend over the past three year, much of it unrel to afghanistan, iraq, or terror. third must be the start of a seriou debat on larg-scale health care reform. on thing is certain - destroi the budget in order to save it is not go to equip the us economi and govern for the challeng of thi new centuri.
