ebber 'awar' of worldcom fraud

former worldcom boss berni ebber wa directli involv in the $11bn financi fraud at the firm, hi closest associ ha told a us court.

give evid in the crimin trial of mr ebber, ex-financ chief scott sullivan implic hi colleagu in the account scandal at the firm. mr sullivan, worldcom's former number two, is the govern's chief wit in it case against mr ebber. mr ebber ha deni multipl charg of conspiraci and fraud.

senior worldcom execut ar accus of orchestr a huge fraud at the former telecom compani in which thei exagger revenu and hid the cost of expens. the firm wa forc into bankruptci, the largest in us histori. mr sullivan, 42, plead guilti to fraud last year and agre to assist the govern with it case against mr ebber.

prosecutor have alleg that mr ebber, 63, direct mr sullivan to hide the true state of the compani's financ by provid fals inform to the firm's account. mr ebber ha deni all the charg, sai he wa unawar of the fraud. hi lawyer claim that their client wa unfamiliar with detail account practic and left that side of the busi to mr sullivan.

howev, on mondai mr sullivan name mr ebber as on of five execut who particip in the account fraud. "he [ebber] ha got a hand-on grasp of financi inform," mr sullivan told a new york court. on hi first dai of question, mr sullivan admit to falsifi the compani's financi statement.

"we did not disclos these adjust," he said. "we did not talk about these adjust and the inform wa fals." mr sullivan said hi former boss knew more about account matter than mani chief financi offic and describ him as "detail-orient".

he portrai mr ebber, a charismat businessman who built up worldcom from a small region oper into on of america's largest telecom firm, as obsess with cost. "he would talk about that there were more coffe filter than coffe bag and that mean employe ar take coffe home," he said. "we need to cut expens. we need to cut a lot more than coffe expens." mr sullivan is at the centr of the govern's case against mr ebber. mr ebber could face a sentenc of 85 year if convict of all the charg he is face.
