bush budget seek deep cutback

presid bush ha present hi 2006 budget, cut domest spend in a bid to lower a record deficit project to peak at $427bn (£230bn) thi year.

the $2.58 trillion (£1.38 trillion) budget submit to congress affect 150 domest programm from farm to the environ, educ and health. but foreign aid is due to rise by 10%, with more monei to treat hiv/aid and reward econom and polit reform. militari spend is also set to rise by 4.8%, to reach $419.3bn. the budget doe not includ the cost of run militari oper in iraq and afghanistan, for which the administr is expect to seek an extra $80bn from congress later thi year.

congress will spend sever month debat georg w bush's propos.

the state depart's plan budget would rise to just under $23bn - a fraction of the defenc depart's request - includ almost $6bn to assist us alli in the "war on terror". howev, the administr is keen to highlight it global effort to tackl hiv/aid, the bbc's jonathan beal report, and plan spend would almost doubl to $3bn, with much of that monei go to african nation. mr bush also want to increas the amount given to poorer countri through hi millennium challeng corpor. the scheme ha been set up to reward develop countri that embrac what the us consid to be good govern and sound polici. yet mr bush's propos spend of $3bn on that project is well below hi initi promis of $5bn.

a kei spend line miss from propos is the cost of fund the administr's propos radic overhaul of social secur, the pension programm on which mani american reli for their retir incom.

some expert believ thi could requir borrow of up to $4.5 trillion over a 20-year period. neither doe the budget includ ani cash to purchas crude oil for the us emerg petroleum stockpil. concern over the level of the reserv, creat in 1970s, ha led to rise in oil price over the past year. the bush administr will instead continu to fill the reserv by take oil - rather than cash - from energi compani that drill under feder leas.

the outlin propos reduct in budget at 12 out of 23 govern agenc includ cut of 9.6% at agricultur and 5.6% at the environment protect agenc. the spend plan for the year begin 1 octob is bank on a healthi us economi to boost govern incom by 6.1% to $2.18 trillion. spend is forecast to grow by 3.5% to $2.57 trillion. but the budget is still the tightest yet under mr bush's presid. "in order to sustain our econom expans, we must continu pro-growth polici and enforc even greater spend restraint across feder govern," mr bush said in hi budget messag to congress. mr bush ha promis to halv the us's massiv budget deficit within five year. the deficit, partli the result of massiv tax cut earli in mr bush's presid, ha been a kei factor in push the us dollar lower. the independ congression budget offic estim that the shortfal could shrink to littl more than $200bn by 2009, return to the surplus seen in the late 1990s by 2012. but it estim depend on the tax cut not be made perman, in line with the promis when thei were pass that thei would "sunset", or disappear, in 2010. most republican, howev, want them to stai in place. and the figur also reli on the "social secur trust fund" - the monei set asid to cover the swell cost of retir pension - be offset against the main budget deficit.
