bt offer equal access to rival

bt ha move to pre-empt a possibl break-up of it busi by offer to cut wholesal broadband price and open it network to rival.

the move come after telecom regul ofcom said in novemb that the firm must offer competitor "real equal of access to it phone line". at the time, ofcom offer bt the choic of chang or split into two. ofcom is carri out a strateg review aim at promot greater competit in the uk telecom sector. bt's competitor have frequent accus it of misus it statu as the former telecom monopoli and control of access to mani custom to favour it own retail arm.

thi latest submiss wa deliv to the watchdog ahead of a deadlin for the second phase of it review.

"central to the propos ar plan by bt to offer oper lower wholesal price, faster broadband servic and transpar, highli-regul access to bt's local network," the former monopoli said in a statement. "the unit kingdom ha the opportun to creat the most excit and innov telecom market in the world," bt chief execut ben verwaayen said. "bt ha a critic role to plai, and todai we ar make a set of far-reach propos toward that framework," he said. bt want lighter regul in exchang for the chang, as well as the remov of the break-up threat.

the group is to set up a new access servic divis - with a separ board which would includ independ member - to ensur equal access for rival to the "local loop", the copper wire that run between telephon exchang and household. the compani also unveil plan to cut the wholesal price of it most popular broadband product by about 8% from april in area of high custom demand.

it ad that it plan to invest £10bn in the next five year to creat a "21st centuri network". to meet the grow demand for greater bandwidth, bt said it would begin trial in april with a view to launch higher-speed servic nation from the autumn.

telecom analyst ovum welcom the move, sai bt had "given a lot of ground".

"the big question now is whether the industri, and particularli ofcom feel bt's propos go far enough ...now the real negoti begin," director of telecom research toni lavend said. internet servic provid (isp) plu.net also back the propos sai "we will be entir happi if ofcom accept them". "bt ha been challeng to plai fair and it plan will introduc a level plai field. the scenario now is how well peopl execut their busi plan as a servic provid," chief execut lee strafford said. chri panayi, manag director of isp freedom2surf said that it would make the situat clearer for busi. "i think it's the first product thing we've had from bt," he said.

aol back the price cut but said regul wa still need to ensur a level plai field. "thi is a remind to ofcom that as long as bt can chang the dynam of the whole broadband market at will, the process of open up the uk's local telephon network to infrastructur invest and competit remain fragil," a spokesman said. "ofcom need to return to regul of the wholesal broadband servic [ipstream] and provid more robust rule for local loop unbundl if consum ar to see the benefit of increas competit and infrastructur invest." more than 100 telecom firm, consum group and other interest parti ar expect to make submiss to the regul dure thi consult phase. ofcom is expect to spend the next few week examin the propos befor make an announc within the next few month.
