turkei knock six zero off lira

turkei is to relaunch it currenc on saturdai, knock six zero off the lira in the hope of boost trade and power it grow economi.

the chang will see the end of such dizzyingli-high denomin as five million lira - enough for a short taxi ride - and the 20m note, worth $15. these valuat were the product of decad of inflat which, as recent as 2001, wa as high as 70%. inflat ha sinc been tame and econom prospect ar improv.

the currenc - offici to be known as the new lira - will be launch at midnight on 1 januari. from that point, the on-million lira note will becom the new on-lira coin. the govern hope the chang will be seen as a promis of grow econom stabil as turkei embark on the long process of try to join the european union.

on an everydai level, it is hope the chang will stimul more intern trade and end confus among foreign investor and turk alik. "the transit to the new turkish lira show clearli that our economi ha broken the viciou circl that it wa imprison in for long year," said sureyya serdengecti, head of the turkish central bank. "the new lira is also the symbol of the stabl economi that we dream of for long year."

the turkish economi teeter on the brink of collaps in 2001 when the lira plung in valu and two million peopl lost their job.

turkei had to turn to the intern monetari fund for financi assist, accept a $18bn loan in return for push through a wide-rang auster programm. these tough measur have born fruit. inflat fell below 10% earlier thi year for the first time in decad while export ar up 30% thi year. meanwhil, the economi is expand at a healthi rate, with 7.9% growth expect in 2004. the govern hope that the new currenc will cement the countri's econom progress, two week after eu leader set a date for the start of turkei's access talk.

the slim-down lira is like to be wide welcom by the busi commun.

"the turkish lira ha been like funni monei," tevfik aksoi, chief turkish economist for deutsch bank, told associ press. "now at least in cosmet term it will look like real currenc." howev, some do not feel quit so happi about see the nomin valu of their invest reduc. "if a person ha 10 billion lira in invest thi will suddenli decreas," shop owner hayriy evren, told associ press. "thi will definit affect peopl psycholog."
