s korea spend boost to economi

south korea will boost state spend next year in an effort to creat job and kick start it sputter economi.

it ha earmark 100 trillion won ($96bn) for the first six month of 2005, 60% of it total annual budget. the govern's main problem ar "slump consumpt and a contract in the construct industri". it aim to creat 400,000 job and will focu on infrastructur and home build, as well as provid public firm with monei to hire new worker.

the govern ha set an econom growth rate target of 5% for next year and hint that would be in danger unless it took action. "intern and extern econom condit ar like to remain unfavour in 2005," the financ and economi ministri said in a statement.

it blame "continu uncertainti such as fluctuat oil price and foreign exchang rate and stagnant domest demand that ha shown few sign of a quick rebound". in 2004, growth will be between 4.7% and 4.8%, the ministri said. not everyon is convinc the plan will work. "our primari worri centr on the what we believ is the govern's overli optimist view that it front load of the budget will be enough to turn the economi around," consult 4cast said in a report.

the problem face south korea is that mani consum ar reel from the effect of a credit bubbl that onli recent burst. million of south korean ar default on their credit card bill, and the countri's biggest card lender ha been hover on the verg of bankruptci for month. as part of it spend plan, the govern said it will ask firm to "roll over mortgag loan that come due in the first half of 2005" . it also pledg to look at wai of help famili on low incom.

the govern voic concern about the effect of redund in the build trade. "given the econom spill over and employ effect in the construct sector, a sharp downturn in the construct industri could have other advers effect," the ministri said.

as a result, south korea will give privat compani also will be given the chanc to build school, hospit, hous and other public build. it also will look at real estat tax system. other plan on the tabl includ promot new industri such as bio-technolog and nano-technolog, as well as offer increas support to small and medium size busi. "the focu will be on job creation and econom recoveri, given that unfavour domest and global condit ar like to dog the korean economi in 2005," the ministri said.
