asia share defi post-quak gloom

indonesian, indian and hong kong stock market reach record high.

investor seem to feel that some of the worst-affect area were so under-develop that the tragedi would have littl impact on asia's list firm. "obvious with a lot of loss of life, a lot of time is need to clean up the mess, buri the peopl and find the miss," said abn amro's eddi wong. "[but] it's not necessarili a realli big thing in the econom sens."

india's bombai stock exchang inch slightli abov it previou record close on wednesdai. expect of strong corpor earn in 2005 drove the indonesian stock exchang in jakarta to a record high on wednesdai. in hong kong, the hang seng index mai be benefit in part from the potenti for it list properti compani to gain from rebuild contract in the tsunami-affect region of south east asia. in sri lanka, some economist have said that as much as 1% of annual growth mai be lost. sri lanka's stock market ha fallen about 5% sinc the weekend, but it is still 40% higher than at the start of 2004.

thailand mai lose 30bn baht (£398m; $768m) in earn from tourism over the next three month, accord to tourism minist sontaya kunplom.

in the affect provinc, he expect the loss of tourism revenu to be offset by govern reconstruct spend. thailand intend to spend a similar sum - around 30bn baht - on the rebuild work. "it will take until the fourth quarter of next year befor tourist visitor in phuket and five other provinc return to their normal level," said nari chaiyasoot, director gener at the ministri's fiscal polici offic. in the maldiv the cost of reconstruct could wipe out econom growth, accord to a govern spokesman. "our nation is in peril here," said ahm shahe, the chief govern spokesman. he estim the econom cost of the disast at hundr of million of dollar. the maldiv ha gross domest product of $660m. "it won't be surpris if the cost exce our gdp," he said. "in the last few year, we made great progress in our standard of live - the unit nation recognis thi. now we see thi can disappear in a few dai, a few minut." shahe note that invest in a singl tourist resort - the econom mainstai - could run to $40m. between 10 and 12 of the 80-odd resort have been sever damag, and a similar number have suffer signific damag.

howev, mani expert, includ the world bank, have point out that it is still difficult to assess the magnitud of the disast and it like econom impact. in part, thi is becaus of it scale, and becaus deliv aid and recov the dead remain prioriti. "calcul will have to wait," said an imf offici in a brief on wednesdai. "the financi and world commun will be turn toward reconstruct effort and at that point peopl will begin to have a sens of the financi impact."
