boom market shed few tear

the market, former british govern minist michael heseltin onc said, ha no moral.

and inde, stock exchang trader around asia have wast littl time regret the victim of thi week's disast. stock market in indonesia and india have hit all-time high thi week; even in sri lanka, more comprehens affect, the main index ha lost onli 5% sinc the wave hit. bigger market further afield have bare twitch. the msci world share index, a measur of global stock market perform, hit it highest level thi week sinc earli 2001; the bbc global 30 ha risen by 3% in the past week. and thi at a time when - all sentiment asid - insur cost ar alreadi estim in the ten of billion of dollar, and countri around the region ar look at trim their growth forecast.

in fact, the market ar be perfectli ration.

for a start, the notion insur cost of the disast will have littl bear on corpor bottom line. the overwhelm major of the victim will have had no insur: accord to estim from india, onli on-quarter of those affect there were wealthi enough to afford insur, and onli on-quarter of that group at most will have taken out polici. indonesia is like to have even lower take-up rate. and where insur certainli is in place - in, for exampl, the mani tourist complex affect - the cost will be born in far-awai corner of the global reinsur market, rather than land local.

second, stock market do not trade the sort of compani like to have been damag. most of the biggest compani trade on the soar jakarta stock exchang ar in oil, technolog and financi servic - none of which have been hit by the flood. tourist busi, the most like suffer, ar either foreign-own or too small to have their share list. those that ar list have suffer: confifi hotel hold, a small sri lankan tourism firm, ha halv in valu thi week. but there ar winner as well as loser. asian stock market ar heavili inclin toward properti and construct compani, mani of which will be rub their hand over the reconstruct opportun. in indonesia, share in state construct compani adhi karya and semen gresik have jump sharpli thi week.

more broadli, the academ consensu is that major disast ar larg neutral in their longer-term econom impact.

accord to the natur hazard research and applic inform center at colorado state univers, there is littl evid that disast ar inevit follow by a depress. the need to find monei to replac lost and damag properti is balanc by the benefici effect of reconstruct activ; there is rare, the centr sai, ani sort of rebuild boom, but in most case sizeabl indirect loss ar avoid. a studi of the 1993 de moin flood, from the disast research center at the univers of delawar*, found that 70% of local busi were no wors off after the disast, and anoth 18% felt themselv better off. "although it is commonli assum on the basi of anecdot evid that disast result in busi failur and bankruptci on a larg scale, our research indic that most busi, even those that ar especi hard-hit, do inde recov," the author conclud.

but disast have a vast psycholog impact, and market ar driven by psycholog factor.

in particular, mani analyst warn of panic spread uncheck through the global financi system, as investor seek to cover themselv against the unforese effect of unguess event. in fact, again, the risk here ar lower than thei seem. even the costliest natur disast is render minuscul by the global capit market - current $30 trillion and rise. a seri of recent shock, the colorado centr ha argu, have demonstr that thi seamless global contagion hardli ever happen: market tremor rare translat into econom slump, and econom woe rare serious undermin market. the trillion-dollar debt of japan's bank, for exampl, have had no effect on stock market further afield than tokyo. and the us stock market wa on it wai down long befor 11 septemb, 2001; it rose by 20% dure the six month follow the attack. "it is not that the broke commun is indiffer to disast or feel," on bombai trader said thi week. "but the reaction would have been seen if busi had been affect. busi sens probabl tend to overrul everyth els."
