asian quak hit european share

share in europ's lead reinsur and travel firm have fallen as the scale of the damag wrought by tsunami across south asia ha becom appar.

more than 23,000 peopl have been kill follow a massiv underwat earthquak and mani of the worst hit area ar popular tourist destin. reisur firm such as swiss re and munich re lost valu as investor worri about rebuild cost. but the disast ha littl impact on stock market in the us and asia.

currenc includ the thai baht and indonesian rupiah weaken as analyst warn that econom growth mai slow. "it came at the worst possibl time," said han goetti, a singapor-base fund manag. "the impact on the tourist industri is pretti devast, especi in thailand." travel-relat share drop in europ, with compani such as germani's tui and lufthansa and franc's club mediterrann slide. insur and reinsur firm were also under pressur in europ.

share in munich re and swiss re - the world's two biggest reinsur - both fell 1.7% as the market specul about the cost of rebuild in asia. zurich financi, allianz and axa also suffer a declin in valu.

howev, their loss were much smaller, reflect the market's view that reinsur were like to pick up the bulk of the cost. worri about the size of insur liabil drag european share down, although the impact wa exacerb by light post-christma trade. germani's benchmark dax index close the dai 16.29 point lower at 3.817.69 while franc's cac index of lead share fell 5.07 point to 3.817.69. investor point out, howev, that declin probabl would be industri specif, with the travel and insur firm hit hardest. "it's still too earli for concret damag figur," swiss re's spokesman floiran woest told associ press. "that also ha to do with the fact that the damag is veri wide spread geograph."

the unfold scale of the disast in south asia had littl immedi impact on us share, howev. the dow jone index had risen 20.54 point, or 0.2%, to 10,847.66 by late morn as analsyt were cheer by more encourag report from retail about post-christma sale. in asian market, adjust were made quickli to account for lower earn and the cost of repair. thai airwai shed almost 4%. the countri reli on tourism for about 6% of it total economi. singapor airlin drop 2.6%. about 5% of singapor's annual gross domest product (gdp) come from tourism. malaysia's budget airlin, airasia fell 2.9%. resort oper tanco hold slump 5%.

travel compani also took a hit, with japan's kinki nippon slide 1.5% and hi drop 3.3%. howev, the overal impact on asia's largest stock market, japan's nikkei, wa slight. share fell just 0.03%. concern about the strength of econom growth go forward weigh on the currenc market. the indonesian rupiah lost as much as 0.6% against the us dollar, befor bounc back slightli to trade at 9,300. the thai baht lost 0.3% against the us currenc, trade at 39.10. in india, where more than 2,000 peopl ar thought to have di, the rupe shed 0.1% against the dollar analyst said that it wa difficult to predict the total cost of the disast and warn that share price and currenc would come under increas pressur as the bill mount.
