french suitor hold lse meet

european stock market euronext ha met with the london stock exchang (lse) amid specul that it mai be readi to launch a cash bid.

euronext chief jean-francoi theodor held talk with lse boss clara furs the dai after rival deutsch boers put forward it own bid case. the german exchang said it had held "construct, profession and friendli" talk with the lse. but euronext declin to comment after the talk end on fridai. specul is mount that the german mai rais their bid to £1.5bn. deutsch boers previous offer £1.3bn, which wa reject by the lse, while euronext is rumour to have facil in place to fund a £1.4bn cash bid. so far, howev, neither have tabl a formal bid. but a deal with either bidder would creat the biggest stock market oper in europ and the second biggest in the world after the new york stock exchang.

there wa specul euronext would us fridai's meet as an opportun to take advantag of grow disquiet over deutsch boers's own plan for domin over the london market. union for deutsch boers staff in frankfurt ha reportedli express fear that up to 300 job would be move to london if the takeov is success. "the work council ha express concern that the equiti and deriv trade could be manag from london in the futur," reuter new agenc report a union sourc as sai. german politician ar also said to be angri over the market oper's promis to move it headquart to london if a bid were success.

meanwhil, lse sharehold fear that deutsch boers's control over it clearstream unit - the clear hous that process secur transact - would creat a monopoli situat. thi would weaken the posit of sharehold when negoti lower transact fee for share deal. lse and euronext do not have control over their clear and settlement oper, a situat which critic sai is more transpar and competit. the german group's ownership of clearstream ha been seen as the main stumbl block to a london-frankfurt merger. comment believ deutsch boers, which ha now formal ask german author to approv it plan to bui the lse, mai offer to sell clearstream to gain sharehold approv. euronext, so far, ha given littl awai as to what sweeten it will offer the lse - europ's biggest equiti market - into a deal.
