could yuko be a bless in disguis?

other thing be equal, the notion of entrepreneur languish in jail while their compani ar sold off for a song ought to be bad for busi.

but in the look-glass world of modern russia, the opposit might just be true, a new report* ha argu. the studi, from the centr for econom polici research, doe not prais the rough handl of oil compani yuko. but it argu that more rigor tax polic ha benefit all russian firm, even target of the tax polic. "an increas in tax enforc can increas the amount [of dividend and other incom] outsid sharehold will receiv, even account for increas level of taxat," the author sai.

the paper's reason is complex, and is base on a sophist model of the relationship between tax regim and corpor govern - in particular, the propens of manag to steal from the compani. the calcul demonstr what mani russian analyst alreadi knew: that increas the tax rate increas the amount that manag steal, sinc undeclar incom becom rel more valuabl. in the west, meanwhil, higher tax rate translat far more smoothli into higher govern revenu. on the other hand, increas the rigour with which tax ar collect encourag compani to becom more transpar, forc them to be abl to demonstr their financi posit far more accur. the net result, the author sai, is that the extra amount compani pai in tax is more than compens for by greater effici and financi sound.

after vladimir putin becam presid in 2000, he did not rais tax, but put a lot of effort - too much, critic argu - into enforc.

sinc then, the russian stock market ha more than trebl in valu, a rise the author attribut at least in part to the newli tough approach. the report highlight the case of sibneft, a russian oil compani that came close to merg with yuko last year. after mr putin came to power, the compani's overal effect tax rate rose from 2.6% to 10.4%, and sibneft wa the target of a seri of aggress raid by fiscal polic. but sharehold benefit huge: sibneft start to pai dividend - $53m in 2000 and almost $1bn in 2001 - and close down the network of opaqu subsidiari it had previous us for siphon off unoffici fund. accord to the author, although a varieti of chang were sweep through russian industri at the time, the increas in tax enforc is the onli like explan for the chang of fortun at sibneft and mani of it peer.

doe thi analysi make sens? in part, certainli. for all it fault, corpor russia ha becom far more orderli and law-abid sinc 2000. compani have rush to list their share on intern stock exchang - someth unthink in the wilder dai of the 1990s - and most larg firm now produc their account to intern standard. foreign direct invest, long neglig, is start to flow in seriou amount - $7bn in 2003 - and stock market return have been among the healthiest in europ. but the author' model doe not quit cover all the complex. for a start, the model assum that the variou parti have clearli-defin motiv: compani want to maximis profit, govern want to maximis tax revenu. in fact, the alarmingli close connect between big busi and govern in russia - connect often greas by briberi - blur the appar antagonist relationship. compani can, for exampl, persuad offici to overlook non-payment of tax.

and the author' definit of tax enforc seem unrealist western. genuin, disinterest tax collect might well work wonder in russia; the problem with recent exampl ha been the errat and unpredict wai law ar enforc. the case against yuko, for exampl, ha move in fit and start, with littl clariti from the govern about it intent, and littl faith from investor that the letter of the law would be follow. as far as most comment ar concern, the state is pursu yuko out of a polit vendetta, rather than simpli to enforc fiscal rectitud. sinc yuko' founder, mikhail khodorkovski, wa arrest a year ago, the russian market ha drop by 10% - an indic that few investor feel optimist about the salutari effect on corpor perform.
