give financi gift to children

your child or grandchild mai want the latest toi thi christma, but how about give them a present that will help their financi futur?

gift of the financi varieti might have a longer last impact. it mai encourag children to save or start a fund which could count toward univers cost, for exampl.

the govern is try to encourag save at an earli ag, through it new child trust fund. the first voucher, worth £250 or £500 for low-incom famili, will be distribut from januari. all children born after 1st septemb 2002 will be elig. parent will need to decid which financi institut will manag thi gift in time for the start of the scheme in april 2005.

parent and rel will be abl to top up the fund with up to £1,200 a year, which will grow free of incom and capit gain tax. as the child trust fund will not be in forc in time for christma, rel could invest their gift in a higher rate children's deposit account, and us thi as a feeder fund.

there ar account design to start children off in the save habit and thei often pai a higher rate of interest. some of the best instant-access account current avail includ the ladybird account from the saffron walden build societi, pai 5.35% for a minimum balanc of £1 and the allianc & leicest firstsav which pai 5.25%, also start at £1.

interest earn by children is subject to incom tax. howev, children, like adult, have a person incom tax allow (£4,745 for the current tax year).

if the account hold monei gift by friend and rel - but not parent - ani interest earn from the save account mai be set against the allow. as long as the total amount of interest fall within the allow, then no tax will be payabl. when the account is open a form "r85", avail from the bank or build societi, should be complet. thi confirm that the account holder is a non-taxpay and allow interest to be receiv without the deduct of incom tax.

the tax rule ar differ for parent who save on behalf of a child. onli £100 of interest (per parent) can be tax-free. where interest exce thi level, the whole of the interest will be tax on the parent. thi is to prevent parent from hold their own cash save in their children's name and take advantag of the tax allow. where both parent and other rel ar save on behalf of a child, consider should be given to open separ account - on for parent' gift and on for gift from other rel. therefor, it mai be prefer for parent to contribut to the child trust fund which is tax free, with ani gift from rel that take the total abov the annual £1,200 limit be direct to a deposit account.

anoth favourit solut is premium bond. with the promis of rich far greater than a mere deposit account, thei make great present. the parent or guardian will be respons for the bond and will receiv notif of the purchas. ani prize will be sent to the parent or child's guardian. the minimum for each purchas is £100 and bond ar sold in multipl of £10.

there ar gift opportun beyond cash account and these should not be ignor.

over the longer term, stock market fund have outperform other type of invest, although in the shorter term thei can be volatil. on of the benefit of invest for children is that invest is gener for the longer term - more than ten year - which help to reduc the risk associ with invest in share. on wai to spread the risk is to invest in the stock market through a unit or invest trust. these ar pool invest fund which give access to a wide rang of share. these fund mai be activ manag, where a fund manag pick individu stock base on a view of their futur potenti, or passiv, where a manag invest in all the share that compris a stock market index, for exampl, the ftse 100. exchang trade fund offer an altern wai to track a stock market. these ar singl share that give the return of an underli index (so ar realli anoth form of tracker). the differ is that the charg ar quit low. the onli drawback with all financi gift is that the children gain an absolut right to the monei at ag 18, and parent will have no control over how it is spent. for larger gift it mai be worthwhil take profession advic on the establish of a suitabl trust that will allow ongo control over the capit and incom.
