air china in $1bn london list

china's nation airlin is to make it oversea stock market debut with a dual list in london and hong kong, the london stock exchang (lse) ha said.

air china plan to rais $1bn (£514m) from the flotat. share trade will begin on 15 decemb, the lse said. for china's aviat author, the list is part of the modernis of it airlin sector to cope with soar demand for air travel. no further detail of the share price or number of share were given.

the lse ha been work hard to woo chines compani to choos london, rather than new york for their list. it open an asia-pacif offic in hong kong last month. "we ar delight that air china ha chosen london for it list outsid china," said lse chief execut clara furs. "the london stock exchang offer ambiti chines compani access to the world's most intern equiti market combin with high regulatori and corpor govern standard," she said. a spokesman for the lse said: "we've been engag with them (air china) for about 18 month, two year now." as part of it pitch to bring list to london, the lse is thought to be highlight the extra cost and red-tape impos by new us law pass sinc the enron scandal, whilst stress london's strong regulatori environ.

germani's chancellor gerhard schroeder began a three-dai visit to beij on mondai by sign a deal worth 1bn euro ($1.3bn; £690m) for airbu to sell 23 new plane to air china, the deutsch well radio station report. china's boom economi ha creat huge demand for air travel among middl-class chines, turn the countri into a sale battleground between rival plane maker airbu and boe. air china's long-await flotat is part of a strategi to modernis a dozen state-own carrier, which have been reorganis into three group under air china, china southern and china eastern. merril lynch ar sole bookrunn for air china's flotat, which will take the form of a share place with institut investor in london, though retail investor mai be abl to bui air china share in hong kong. air china's primari list will be in hong kong, with a secondari list in london. the share will be denomin in hong kong dollar. howev, investor mai be wari of chines stock. the collaps last week of china aviat oil, the singapor-list arm of a chines jet fuel trader, ha cast the spotlight on corpor govern shortcom at chines firm.
