oil price reach three-month low

oil price have fallen heavili for a second dai, close at three-month low after new that us crude stock have improv ahead of winter.

london brent crude close at $40.15 on thursdai - a drop of 5.1% - have dive below $40 a barrel for the first time sinc mid-septemb. us light crude trade in new york lost more than $2 to $43.25, it lowest close sinc 10 septemb. the price of both benchmark crude ha drop 12% in two dai. the fall were trigger when the energi inform administr (eia) said on wednesdai that us crude stock were 3.5% higher than a year ago. the new calm worri about winter shortag. weak us fuel and heat oil stock have been a persist factor in push up oil price. "it's amaz how quickli sentiment chang," said rick mueller, an analyst at energi secur analysi. analyst also attribut the fall to mild earli-winter weather, which ha temper demand for heat oil.

the stronger fuel inventori help boost us stock market to nine-month high on wednesdai, though onli the nasdaq index had hung onto those gain by the end of thursdai.

in london, the ftse 100 index close 15 point higher at 4,751. the long-await drop in oil price help to eas persist investor jitter over the impact of energi cost on compani profit and econom growth. howev, trader warn that the fall could be short-live if there is a cold snap in north america thi winter or ani major suppli problem in other part of the world.

the price of crude is still up about 30% on the start of 2004, but ha fallen from the record of $55.67 set in late octob. opec nation have increas product to 25-year high to meet global demand and thi ha help rebuild us stock hit by suppli disrupt after hurrican ivan in septemb. trader were also encourag by comment on wednesdai from the energi minist of opec member algeria. chakib khelil said the cartel wa like to keep output unchang when it meet next week. howev, some analyst believ the sharp fall in crude price mai harden opec's attitud to over-product, lead to a scale back of oil output.

fear still remain over the level of us heat oil stock, which ar rise but remain down on 2004 level. a cold spell in north america would start to deplet suppli and could spark further price rise. analyst, howev, sai price will fall further if inventori continu to rise. "mother natur is go to be huge in the next sever week," said kyle cooper, at citigroup global market. "long term i think we're head to $30-35 but i don't think we're do that yet. we have a lot of winter left." john person, presid of nation futur advisori servic, said the eia data indic there should be adequ suppli for the next three month in the us. .
