arsen 'mai seek full share list'

arsen vice-chairman david dein ha said the club mai consid seek a full list for it share on the london stock exchang.

speak at the soccerex footbal busi forum in dubai, he said a full list wa "on of the option" for fund after the club move to it new stadium. the club - which is current list on the smaller ofex share exchang - is due to move into it new 60,000-seater emir stadium at ashburton grove for the start of the 2006/07 season. mr dein also warn the current level of tv coverag of the premiership mai be reach satur level, with sign that match attend have been drop off in the first few month of thi season.

when arsen move to it new stadium it will see it proport of turnov from media earn drop from 52% thi season to 34% in two year' time. the club is hope to increas matchdai earn from 29% to 40% of turnov, and ha not rule out other monei-earn mean, includ a full share list. "when the new stadium open we will go through a thorough financi review," mr dein said.

"list would be on option, but we ar flexibl and no decis have been made on that issu yet. "we want to be in the best financi health - mayb club can do it (list), manchest unit have been a success."

mr dein said that, although televis monei and coverag had driven the english game forward in the past 10 year, he fear there might now be too mani game be shown. sinc the format of the premier leagu in season 1992/93, premiership club have seen their incom from televis soar. "televis ha been the drive forc over the past 10 year... but we must constantli improv if we want to remain as the world's lead leagu competit. "we must monitor the qualiti of the product and ensur attend do not declin, and we must balanc that with the quantiti of exposur on tv too. "i think we have practic reach satur point... sometim i think less is more."

the club is fund it move to ashburton grove through a number of sourc, includ debt from bank, from monei it alreadi ha and will receiv in come year from sponsor, and from the sale of surplu properti, includ it highburi stadium. it is also look to creat new revenu stream from oversea market, includ asia. "we have two execut travel round japan and china at the moment build relationship with organis and club, and we know our support club ar grow there too, as thei ar around the world. "we have got a veri good product, so it is veri import we go and look at these market, and make sure we ar on the case."
