market signal brazilian recoveri

the brazilian stock market ha risen to a record high as investor displai grow confid in the durabl of the countri's econom recoveri.

the main bovespa index on the sao paolo stock exchang close at 24,997 point on fridai, top the previou record market close reach the previou dai. the market's buoyanc reflect optim about the brazilian economi, which could grow by as much as 4.5% in 2004. brazil is recov from last year's recess - it worst in a decad.

econom output declin 0.2% in 2003 and presid luiz inacio lula da silva - elect as brazil's first work-class presid in 2002 - wa strongli criticis for pursu a hardlin econom polici.

investor have prais hi handl of the economi as foreign invest ha risen, unemploy ha fallen and inflat ha been brought under control. analyst believ the stock market will rise abov the 25,000 mark for the first time befor too long. "there should be more space for gain until the end of the year, somewher up to 27,000 point," said paschoal tadeu buonomo, head of equiti trade at broker tov. brazil's currenc, the real, also rose to it highest level against the dollar in more than two year on fridai. although interest rate still stand at a punit 17.25%, inflat ha fallen from 9% to 7% while export ar boom, particularli of agricultur product. "for the first time in decad, we have all three econom polici pillar in line dure a recoveri," financ minist antonio palocci told the associ press new agenc. "govern account ar in surplu, we have a current account surplu and inflat is under control."

investor were deepli suspici of presid da silva, a former trade union leader who campaign on a programm of extens land redistribut and a larg rise in the minimum wage. howev, mr da silva ha stuck to an orthodox monetari polici inherit from hi predecessor even in the face of last year's econom crisi. thi ha earn him the disapprov of rural farm worker, thousand of whom who took to the street of brasilia on thursdai to protest against govern polici. presid da silva ha defend hi polici, argu that brazil cannot afford to continu the cycl of boom and bust which afflict it in recent decad.
