market fall on weak dollar fear

rise oil price and the sink dollar hit share on mondai after a financ minist' meet and stern word from fed chief alan greenspan.

the london ftse fell 0.8% while tokyo's nikkei 225 drop 2.11%, it steepest fall in three month. g20 financ minist said noth about support the dollar, whose slide could further jeopardis growth in japan and europ. and mr greenspan warn asian state could soon stop fund the us deficit.

on mondai afternoon, the euro wa close to an all-time high against the dollar at abov $1.30. oil push higher too on mondai, as investor fret about cold weather in the us and europ and a potenti output cut from oil produc' group opec, although price had cool by the end of the dai. in london, the benchmark brent crude price close down 51 cent at $44.38 a barrel, while new york light sweet crude close down 25 cent at $48.64 a barrel. the slide come as the us ha been attempt to talk up the tradit "strong dollar" polici.

the latest to pitch in ha been presid georg w bush himself, who told the asia pacif econom co-oper (apec) summit in chile that he remain commit to halv the budget deficit. togeth with a $500bn trade gap, the red ink spread across america's public financ is wide seen as a kei factor drive the dollar lower. and last week us treasuri secretari john snow told an audienc in the uk that the polici remain unalt. but he also said that the rate wa entir up to the market - a signal which trader took as advic to sell the dollar. some had look to the g20 meet for direct. but mr snow made clear exchang rate had not been on the agenda.

for the us govern, let the dollar drift is a us short-term fix.

us export get more afford, help perhap to close the trade gap. in the meantim, the debt keep get bigger, with congress authoris an $800bn rise in what the us can ow - take the total to $8.2 trillion. but in a speech on fridai, feder reserv chairman alan greenspan warn that in the longer term thing ar like to get tricki. at present, much of gap in both public debt is cover by sell bond to asian state such as japan and china, sinc the dollar is seen as the world's reserv currenc. similarli, asian invest help bridg the gap in the current account - the deficit between what the us as a whole spend and what it earn. but alreadi thei ar turn more cautiou - an auction of debt in august found few taker. and mr greenspan said that could turn into a trend, if the fall of the dollar kept eat into the valu of those invest. "it seem persuas that, given the size of the us current account deficit, a diminish appetit for ad to dollar balanc must occur at some point," he said.
