turkei turn on the econom charm

three year after a gruell econom crisi, turkei ha dress it economi to impress.

as part of a charm offens - ahead of 17 decemb, when the european union will decid whether to start entri talk - turkei's econom leader have been bang the drum to draw attent to recent achiev. the economi is grow fast, thei insist. educ level among it young and larg popul ar rise. unemploy level, in percentag term, ar head fast toward singl digit. inflat is under control. a new law to govern it turbul bank system is on the card. the tourism industri is boom and revenu from visitor should more than doubl to $21bn (£10.8bn) in three year.

moreov, govern spend is set to be frozen and a burdensom social secur deficit is be tackl. incom and corpor tax will be cut next year in order to attract $15bn of foreign invest over the next three year. a loan restructur deal with the intern monetari fund (imf) is pretti much in the can. and follow recent macroeconom restructur effort, it currenc is float freeli and it central bank is independ.

the point of all thi ha been to convinc europ's decis maker that rather than be a phenomen costli exercis for the eu, allow turkei in would in fact bring mass of econom benefit.

"the cake will be bigger for everybodi," said deputi prime minist abdullatif sener earlier thi month. "turkei will not be a burden for the eu budget." if admit into the eu, turkei would contribut almost 6bn euro ($8bn; £6bn) to it budget by 2014, accord to a recent impact studi by the countri's state plan organis. as turkei's gross domest output (gdp) is set to grow by 6% per year on averag, it contribut would rise from less than 5bn euro in 2014 to almost 9bn euro by 2020. turkei could also help allevi a labour shortag in "old europ" onc it popul come of ag. by 2014, on in four turk - or about 18 million peopl - will be ag 14 or less. "a liter and qualifi turkish popul," insist mr sener, "will make a posit impact on the eu."

thi run contrari to the popular view that turkei is get readi to dig deep into eu taxpay' wallet. howev, turkei's assert ar confirm by brussel' own impact studi, which inde sai that turkish membership would be good new for the eu economi. but onli over time. cost ar project to be vast dure the earli year of turkei's membership, with subsidi alon estim to exce 16.5bn euro and, accord to some predict, balloon to 33.5bn euro. thi would includ vast agricultur subsidi and region aid, though such payment should declin as the countri's farm sector, which current emploi on in three turk, would emploi just on in five by 2020.

such high initi expens would be coupl with risk that the benefit flag up by turkei's govern would never be deliv, sai those who feel the turkish project should be shun.

some fear that rather than provid an educ, sophist labour forc for europ at larg, the peopl who will leav turkei to seek work abroad will be poor, uneduc - and plenti. more recent, less palat concern - at least in liber european circl - have been voic, with senior eu or member state offici talk darkli of a "river of islam", an "orient" cultur and a threat to europ's "cultur rich". of cours, mani oppon ar polit motiv - their view rang from xenophob prejudic about the countri's muslim tradit to well-document concern about the govern's human right record. yet their econom argument should not be dismiss out of hand.

critic insist that much of the optim about turkei's econom roadmap ha been over-eg - an argument amplifi by a 134% rise in the countri's current account deficit to $10.7bn dure the first 10 month of thi year.

the countri's massiv debt - which includ $23bn ow to the imf and billion borrow via the intern bond market - also remain a major obstacl to it ambit of join the eu. "in the new member state of the european union, gross public debt is typic about 40% of gross domest product," sai reza moghadam, assist director of the imf's european depart. "at about 80% of gdp, turkei's gross debt is doubl that figur." turkei's debt have larg arisen from it effort to push through bank reform after a run on the bank in 2001 caus the countri's devast recess. "there is no question that although turkei is do much better than in the past, it remain quit vulner," sai michael deppler, director of the imf's european depart. "it debt is far too high for an emerg economi." a kei factor for eu decis maker should be whether or not turkei ha met it econom criteria. but econom is not a scienc. and although the state of turkei's economi is import, as is it pace of reform, the final decis on 17 decemb will be taken by politician who will, of cours, be guid by their polit instinct.
