german bidder in talk with lse

deutsch boers boss have held "construct, profession and friendli" talk with the london stock exchang (lse), it chief ha said.

werner seifert met lse chief execut clara furs amid rumour the german group mai rais it bid to £1.5bn ($2.9bn) from it initi £1.3bn offer. howev, rival suitor euronext also up the ant in the bid battl. ahead of talk with the lse on fridai, the pan-european bours said it mai be prepar to make it offer in cash. the pari-base exchang, owner of liff in london, is report to be readi to rais £1.4bn to fund a bid.

the new came as deutsch boers held it third meet with the lse sinc it bid approach in decemb which wa turn down by the london exchang for undervalu the busi. howev, the lse did agre to leav the door open for talk to find out whether a "significantli-improv propos" would be in the interest of lse's sharehold and custom. in the meantim, euronext, which combin the pari, amsterdam and lisbon stock exchang, also began talk with the lse. in a statement on thursdai, euronext said ani offer wa like to be sole in cash, but ad that: "there can be no assur at thi stage that ani offer will be made." a deal with either bidder would creat the biggest stock market oper in europ and the second biggest in the world after the new york stock exchang. howev, neither side ha made a formal offer for the lse, with sourc claim such a step mai still be week awai.

deutsch boers could also face mount opposit to a bid at home. among sweeten report to have been discuss by mr seifert with ms furs were plan to move the manag of it cash and eurex deriv market to london, as well as two member of it execut board. but, han recker, a board member of germani's central bank, the bundesbank, said that cash trade should also remain in frankfurt, someth deutsch boers could move to the uk. "it is not just the headquart of the boers but also import market segment that must stai perman in frankfurt. thi ha special import for the busi activ of the bank and the consult," he said. local govern offici in frankfurt's state of hessen have also spoken out against the move. "it is our wish that the headquart stai here to maintain frankfurt's stand as the number on financi centr in continent europ," aloi rhiel, it minist for econom affair ad.
