iraqi voter turn to econom issu

beyond the desper secur situat in iraq li an economi in tatter.

a viciou cycl of unemploy, poor social servic and poverti ha been made wors by a lack of invest. so there is much hope that an elect govern will break the deadlock. "first rule of law, then the economi," sai radwan hadi, deputi manag director of aberdeen-base oil and ga consult blackwatch petroleum servic, which enter iraq in 2003. mr hadi's view about what the new govern's prioriti should be is share by mani iraqi. the economi ha becom the second-most domin issu for mani polit parti ahead of sundai's elect, accord to bristol univers polit scientist ann alexand, who is work on a project that look at govern and secur in post-war iraq.

job creation rank high both on elect manifesto and on the iraqi peopl's wish list. nobodi know exactli how mani iraqi ar out of work, but it is clear that the situat is dire. "estim of iraq's unemploy rate vari, but we estim it to be between 30-40%," the washington-base independ think-tank the brook institut sai in it iraq index. but some progress ha been made, larg thank to the countri's oil revenu which have exceed $22bn sinc june 2003.

iraq's infrastructur is on the mend, with notabl improv have been made in area such as electr suppli, irrig, telephon network and the re-open of hospit. but seriou problem remain and the grow divid between have and have-not is anger voter. on iraqi woman told ms alexand about her frustrat as she watch tv advert for privat hospit soon after have fail to track down basic medicin from baghdad's pharmaci. observ mr hadi: "the economi at present mark a big divid; the rich get richer, the poor get poorer." an indic of thi can be seen in the world of financ where, in contrast with the daili plight of ordinari peopl, 19 privat bank oper, onli on of which is run in accord with islam bank principl. hope ar high for the futur of financ, so foreign bank have been bui into the sector. nation bank of kuwait ha bought a major stake in credit bank of iraq, the jordanian invest bank export & financ bank ha bought 49% of nation bank of iraq.

foreign firm also hope to cash in on the reconstruct effort. bechtel's effort to rebuild school and restor power have attract controversi as well as boost it bottom line while halliburton ha enjoi a wealth of militari contract. but the involv of foreign firm in the health and bank sector and beyond sit uneasili with mani iraqi who ar accustom to the state take respons for function that ar essenti to make societi work, observ ms alexand. "it is seen as a sell off of iraq's asset and bring in multin at the expens of iraqi busi and iraqi worker," she sai. consequ, the transit govern ha been forc to backtrack in recent month over it propos to allow 100% foreign ownership of iraqi asset, she explain. in the west, it is easi to forget that the otherwis brutal baathist regim us to look after the major of iraq's citizen rather well in term of job creation, social secur and healthcar. opinion poll suggest that "peopl still want the state to take a lead role in provid these thing", ms alexand sai.

yet in some area of the economi, invest from abroad is still warmli welcom, insist mr hadi, an iraqi who left the countri three decad ago. "i think the privat sector will evolv incred fast," mr hadi sai. "iraq's vast natur resourc can support ani magnitud of econom growth."

mani foreign compani sai thei ar keen to get in on the act, yet few ar actual enter the countri in ani meaning wai. but there ar except. mr hadi's blackwatch is just on of mani small oper prepar for a much bigger futur. blackwatch's baghdad-base affili falcon group ha dozen of peopl work for it across the countri in kirkuk and baghdad, and it engin and geo-scientist work with the iraqi oil ministri to hammer out technolog transfer issu, mr hadi point out. "these gui ar try to work. the iraqi busi peopl will do busi at all time. "life goe on in iraq, the peopl take respons, thei want to live normal live."
