japan's ag workforc: built to last

in hi twenti he battl tuberculosi for eight year, then went on to run hi own cloth busi befor marri in hi late thirti. and the 101-year-old torao toshitsun ha eaten raw fish pretti much everi dai throughout hi life.

mr toshitsun is on of japan's 23,000 centenarian - a club that is grow by 13% annual, and where the oldest member is 114. at hi neat osaka detach hous, where he live with on of hi sexagenarian daughter, mr toshitsun keep a regular routin of copi out buddhist sutra and prepar the tradit japanes tea ceremoni. between task, thi remark activ senior citizen reveal what hi next goal is: "well, what's most import for me is to be japan's number on." mr toshitsun want to outliv everyon. and when it come to longev, japan, as a countri, appear to be do just that. women can expect to live until 85, men until 78, four year longer than american and european.

on the outskirt of kyoto, 83-year-old yuji shimizu contempl thi phenomenon dure a round of golf with hi younger friend, who ar in their seventi.

"i think thi is becaus the food industri and the environ have improv," he remark. "on averag, we can live longer." whether it's the diet, or the tradit famili structur where role were clearli defin, or just someth in the gene, japan's elderli ar remark. but while life mai be a game of golf for mr shimizu, hi grandchildren have huge problem ahead. japan is the world's least fertil nation with childbirth rate of just two third of that in the us.

by 2007, japan's popul is expect to peak at 127 million, then shrink to under 100 million by the middl of the centuri. thi mean 30 million fewer worker at a time when the number of elderli will have almost doubl.

"in the year 2050, if the birth rate remain the same peopl over 60 will make up over 30% of the popul," explain shigeo morioka of the intern longev centr in tokyo. so how will japan's financ stai on track? after a decad of econom stagnat and huge deficit spend, the public sector debt is alreadi about 140% of the countri's gross domest product (gdp), the highest rate among industrialis countri. the intern monetari fund predict that as the fall birth rate take grip from 2010, the cost of run japan's welfar state will doubl to more than 5% of gdp, while current account balanc will deterior by over 2%. but unfortun, japan appear poorli prepar both financi and polit. glen wood, vice presid of deutsch secur japan, ask; "who's go to fund the pension fund for the next gener and inde who ar go to be the new japanes worker? "who is go to build the economi, who ar go to be the leader? who ar go to be the produc of the gdp go forward?" on option is further welfar reform. anoth is immigr, possibl from the philippin and indonesia. but so far, ani emerg polici appear restrict to a limit number of nurs staff.

stand next to tokyo harbour is a version of new york's statu of liberti. but, as yet, japan is not readi for an elli island.

"japan ha never realli like that option in it histori and i think it's an option that's becom more and more plausibl and necessari," insist mr wood. in japan, as in europ which also face a workforc declin, immigr is a veri sensit subject. but for the japanes economi, face 8% fewer consum by 2050 mean slump domest sale of car, hi-tech kit and home applianc, perhap even anoth properti crash.

of cours the japanes could alwai have more children. the govern is current consid financi reward for procr coupl similar to those in oper in australia. but there would be no pai back until 2030, when todai's babi ar taxpay, and the demograph crisi, like in europ, start to unfold in 2010. in contrast to japan - and of cours the european union - the us popul is expect to increas by 46% to 420 million by the middl of the centuri. although presid bush must re-devis social secur to take account of a 130% rise in america's over 65s, the imf forese a posit contribut to the us current account balanc from the combin forc of fertil and immigr.

some voic in japanes industri ar call for radic chang to the natur of the japanes labour market. thei want a shift toward financi servic, though doubt persist over the countri's abil, let alon willing, to move awai from manufactur. "japan still ha problem get a viabl bank system, let alon shift their auto busi or their semi-conductor busi or the broad base tech manufactur busi oversea," sai mr wood. japan can either drive some radic reform or els run the risk of a viciou ag recess. fall demand and a lower tax take could result in soar budget pressur and a basket case currenc. come 2020, japan could be more depend on a shrink workforc than ani other industrialis power. there ar fear that the world's number two economi is doom to a perman recess. but none of thi is mr toshitsun's concern anymor. at 101, he chuckl that, he feel fine.
