bank hold interest rate at 4.75%

the bank of england ha left interest rate on hold again at 4.75%, in a wide-predict move.

rate went up five time from novemb 2003 - as the bank sought to cool the hous market and consum debt - but have remain unchang sinc august. recent data ha indic a slowdown in manufactur and consum spend, as well as in mortgag approv. and retail sale disappoint over christma, with analyst put the drop down to less consum confid.

rise interest rate and the accompani slowdown in the hous market have knock consum' optim, caus a sharp fall in demand for expens good, accord to a report earlier thi week from the british retail consortium. the brc said britain's retail had endur their worst christma in a decad.

"todai's no chang decis is correct," said david frost, director gener of the british chamber of commerc (bcc). "but, if there ar clear sign that the economi slow, the mpc should be readi to take quick correct action and cut rate. "dismal report from the retail trade about christma sale ar worri, if thei indic a more gener weaken in consum spend."

mr frost ad: "the hous market outlook remain highli uncertain. "it is wide accept that, if hous price start fall more sharpli, the risk face the economi will worsen consider." cbi chief economist ian mccafferti said the economi had "slow in recent month in respons to rate rise" but that it wa difficult to gaug from the christma period the like pace of activ through the summer. "the bank is have to juggl the emerg of inflationari pressur, driven by a tight labour market and buoyant commod price, against the risk of an over-abrupt slowdown in consum activ," he said. "interest rate ar like to remain on hold for some time."

on thursdai there wa more gloomi new on the manufactur front, as the offic for nation (on) statist reveal british manufactur output unexpectedli fell in novemb - for the fifth month in the past six. the on said manufactur output drop 0.1% in novemb, match a similar unrevis fall in octob and confound economist' expect of a 0.3% rise. manufactur' organis, the eef, said it expect the hold in interest rate to continu in the near futur. it also said there wa evid that manufactur' confid mai be wane as the outlook for the world economi becom more uncertain.

"so far the evid suggest that last year's rate increas have help to rebal the economi without damag the recoveri in manufactur," said eef chief economist, steve radlei. "howev, should the busi outlook start to deterior, the bank should stand readi to cut rate." some economist have predict rate will drop later in the year, although other feel the bank mai still think there is a need for a rise to 5% befor that happen. the bank remain concern about the long-term risk pose by person debt - which is rise at 15% a year - if econom condit worsen.
