glazer make new man utd approach

malcolm glazer ha made a fresh approach to bui manchest unit, which could lead to a bid valu the premiership club at £800m.

the us tycoon, who ha been woo the club for the last 12 month, ha approach the unit board with "detail propos", it ha confirm. mr glazer, who own the tampa bai buccan team, hope thi will lead to a formal bid be accept. hi new offer is expect to contain substanti less debt. mr glazer ha alreadi had on takeov attempt turn down by the red devil and respond by us hi 28.1% sharehold to vote off three board member last novemb.

man unit had turn down the bid becaus it wa base on a high level of borrow. but newspap have specul recent that the tycoon had gain the support of lead bank to come up with a stronger and less debt-laden bid. last week, howev, mr glazer issu a statement to the stock exchang distanc himself from a new bid.

meanwhil, unit's chief execut david gill said in decemb that talk would not resum unless glazer came up with "definit propos". now the board ha confirm that the us bidder is back, with a statement issu on sundai read: "the board can confirm it ha now receiv a detail propos subject to variou precondit which mai form the basi of an offer. "a further announc will be made in due cours."

to succe malcolm glazer will still need the approv of major sharehold john magnier and jp mcmanu, who own 28.9% of the club. but the irish duo have cut off talk with glazer over the propos sale of their stake and have so far made no comment on hi latest approach. unit fan have react with anger at the announc. thei have vehement oppos ani propos takeov by glazer sinc he first show interest in the club in septemb 2003 and after sundai's announc thei vow to fight on. "we will fight tooth and nail to stop him whatev hi offer sai. we do not want him or anybodi els take over unit," said mark longden of the independ manchest unit support' associ. "the campaign against thi propos takeov will continu as it ha done sinc glazer first show interest in the club."
