wall street cheer bush victori

the us stock market ha close higher in respons to georg w bush's victori in the presidenti elect.

the benchmark dow jone share index close more than 1% higher at 10,137, while the nasdaq rose 0.9% to 2,004. mani investor believ that mr bush's polici ar more busi-friendli than those of hi democrat challeng, john kerri. the higher share price also reflect relief that a clear winner ha emerg from what prove to be a tight poll.

investor had worri that the outcom of the poll would be inconclus, pave the wai for a repeat of the legal wrangl that mar the 2000 elect.

the dow lost 5% of it valu in the three week immedi after that elect, when it wa unclear who would occupi the white hous. mr kerri conced defeat on wednesdai, abandon last-ditch hope of carri the vote in the swing state of ohio. "the relief for the market mai be that we have a decis and can move forward," said tim ghriskei, chief invest offic of solari asset manag. some analyst predict that the jump in share price would be short-live, sai investor would quickli focu onc again on the health of the us economi. "i would look at the stock market ralli for bush as kind of a on-dai event," said ken mayland at clearview econom. the us' recent econom perform ha been mix, with solid growth offset by disappointingli low job creation figur, and mount worri over a record budget deficit. elsewher in the financi market on wednesdai, the dollar dip slightli against the euro and climb against the yen, while us oil price close up $1.26 at $50.88 a barrel in new york. the rise in oil price partli reflect the view that presid bush is less like than mr kerri to releas suppli from the us' strateg oil reserv. share price in london, frankfurt and pari also close higher.

success poll in the run-up to tuesdai's elect had shown the two candid run neck and neck.

econom issu, as well as the war in iraq, were the forefront of the campaign. in kei swing state such as ohio, which ha suffer substanti job loss in the past four year, presid bush's handl of the economi becam a crucial elect issu. senat kerri attack presid bush's econom record dure hi campaign, hammer home the fact that a net 800,000 job were lost dure hi term in offic. presid bush focus on the fact that two million job have been creat in the past year, claim that it ha vindic hi tax-cut agenda. as for futur polici, both candid pledg to bring america's $422bn feder budget deficit under control. senat kerri plan to increas tax on those earn more than $200,000 a year. presid bush ha place reform of the pension system at the heart of hi econom agenda for a second term. howev, economist have said both candid' econom programm rest on question assumpt about futur growth.
