million 'to lose textil job'

million of the world's poorest textil trade worker will lose their job under new trade rule to be introduc in the new year, a chariti ha warn.

the world trade organis (wto) is to end it multi-fibr agreement (mfa) on midnight of 31 decemb. christian aid condemn the move, sai it would see almost a million job in bangladesh alon be ax. howev, support of the chang claim it will mean increas effici and lower cost for western consum.

it will also see more job creat in india and china, advoc argu. the wto said that mani develop countri support the end of quota and stress that fund wa avail to countri such as bangladesh to help them make the transit to a fulli liberalis market. "there will be a period of adjust requir," said wto spokesman keith rockwel. "some countri will do better than other but there is no on who is suggest that no develop countri will do well out of thi. "some countri where it mai appear that order will dry up have seen order surg and there ar mani compani who will continu with exist trade relationship."

christian aid ha call on british firm not to simpli "cut and run" but look after their worker, in a new report call rag to rich to rag.

it ad that with few employ altern avail mani sack garment worker could end up in far wors job - with some of the mainli femal worker forc into the sex trade. the wto itself ha warn that as mani as 27 million job could be lost as a result of liberalis in the textil industri. some of the world's fastest develop countri which reli on textil export to build growth - for exampl in bangladesh textil account for almost 85% of the countri's export and the industri emploi around 1.5 million peopl. the mfa pact ha help develop countri get a bigger share of the world market. "the loser in thi new trade landscap will be some of the most vulner worker in countri such as bangladesh, cambodia, sri lanka and nepal," andrew pendleton, christian aid's head of trade polici, said. "thei will be hard-press to cope when garment industri there lose their protect. "we ar deepli concern that the new year will spell miseri for huge number of garment worker." the wto said there wa no consenu among it member to retain the quota and emphasis that fund wa avail to countri such as bangladesh to help them adjust to the liberalis market.

it ad that the impact of the chang for worker most affect by the shake-up had not been consid, ad such seismic chang to polici should "put the interest of poor peopl first - rather than simpli aim to liberalis market at ani cost". while the current mfa wa not perfect, it did allow third world countri like bangladesh to get onto the first rung of industri develop, christian aid said. "intern trade must not be govern by a 'race to the bottom' that pitch on set of poor peopl against anoth," mr pendleton ad.
