us to rule on yuko refug call

yuko ha said a us bankruptci court will decid whether to block russia's impend auction of it main product arm on thursdai.

the russian oil firm ha file for bankruptci protect in the us in an attempt to halt the forc sale. howev, judg letitia clark said the hear would continu on thursdai when argument in the case would be heard. russian author ar due to auction off yuganskneftega on 19 decemb to pai a huge tax bill sent to yuko.

russian prosecutor ar forc the sale of the firm's most lucr asset yuganskneftega to help pai a $27bn (£14bn) back tax bill, which thei claim is ow by yuko.

file for bankruptci protect in the us wa "a last resort to preserv the right of our sharehold, employe and custom," said yuko chief execut steven theed. the compani ad it had opt to take action through american court as us bankruptci law give worldwid jurisdict over a debtor compani's properti and becaus it wa seek a judiciari will to protect the valu of sharehold' invest. howev, as the firm is base in russia and ha no signific us asset, lawyer ar unsur of the outcom of the case. "we ar here to stop 60% of our bodi from be cut off on sundai," zack clement, a lawyer for yuko, told judg clark in an emerg hear in houston, texa, on wednesdai. as well as the bid to get chapter 11 bankruptci - which protect firm from creditor, allow them to continu trade as thei restructur their financ - the group also made a claim for damag against the russian govern. yuko ask the houston court to order russia to arbitr so that it can press claim for billion of dollar in damag over a "campaign of illeg, discriminatori and disproportion" tax claim. mr clement said that under russian law, the russian govern wa oblig to enter into arbitr as set out in intern law.

he ad that the open bid for the firm's yuganskneftga unit wa $8bn - less than half of the $20bn that yuko advis sai it is worth. "we believ the onli signific bidder at the auction on sundai is gazprom," he said, refer to russia's natur ga giant. yuko maintain that the forc auction is illeg and "will caus the compani to suffer immedi and irrepar harm." mani comment believ the russian govern's aggress pursuit of yuko is a polit-motiv respons to the polit ambit of it former chief execut, mikhail khodorkovski. mr khodorkovski, who had fund liber opposit group, wa arrest in octob last year on fraud and tax evas charg and is still in jail analyst believ that if it product unit is auction off, it is like to be bought up by a govern-back firm, like gazprom, effect bring a larg chunk of russia's lucr oil and ga industri back under state control.
