cairn share slump on oil setback

share in cairn energi, a uk oil firm, have close down 18% after a disappoint drill updat and a warn over possibl tax demand.

the compani said test had shown no signific find in on of it indian oil field, but wa upbeat about the potenti of other area. it also said the indian govern had told it to pai a product tax, for which cairn argu it is not liabl. cairn's share have jump by almost 400% thi year. investor had pile into cairn after the compani announc signific oil find in india thi year. chief execut bill gammel said on fridai he wa "disappoint" with explor in the so-call n-c extens area in rajasthan. investor had held high hope of major oil find in thi area. but cairn said estim had been revis in what wa a "signific downgrad of the initi expect".

cairn also said that the govern believ the compani wa liabl to pai tax under it product-share contract. the compani said the rate would be about 900 rupe ($20.40; £10.50) per tonn, or seven barrel, of oil. a spokesman for the firm said that the tax would wipe 5% of the field's current valu.

"cairn refut the govern's posit," mr gammel said. he insist that the contract made it clear that the tax should be shoulder by the license - india's state-run oil & natur ga corp (ongc) - and not the contractor. "we have a pretti strong legal case here," he ad, sai it would onli becom an issu onc the firm start product. investor took a dim view of the statement though. the share close down 247p, or 18%, at 1115 penc. "i think peopl were slightli over-ambiti for how quickli cairn would be abl to develop and potenti offload these reserv," said analyst jason kennei at ing.

the disappoint overshadow increas product target for cairn's exist oilfield. the compani rais target for it mangala and aishwariya field in india from 60,000 barrel a dai to between 80,000 and 100,000 barrel a dai. it mangala field, thought to contain a billion barrel, is it biggest find to date. "these two field will provid the core of the futur develop in rajasthan," mr gammel said. cairn ad that it would be apprais anoth field earli next year. mr gammel set up the compani in the 1980s and ha successfulli switch it focu to south asia from interest in the us and europ. cairn, which also oper in nepal and bangladesh, wa catapult into the ftse 100 index of lead uk share earlier thi year after the sharp rise in it share price.
