yuko unit fetch $9bn at auction

a littl-known russian compani ha bought the main product unit of oil giant yuko at auction in moscow.

baikal financ group outbid favourit gazprom, the state-control ga monopoli, to bui yuganskneftega. baikal paid 260.75bn roubl ($9.37bn: £4.8bn) for yugansk - nowher near the $27bn russia sai yuko ow in tax. yuko react immedi by repeat it view that the auction wa illeg in intern and russian law, and said baikal had bought itself troubl.

"the compani consid that the victor of todai's auction ha bought itself a seriou $9bn headach," said yuko spokesman alexand shadrin. he said the compani would continu to make "everi law move" to protect ten of thousand of sharehold in yuko from "thi forcibl and illegitim remov of their properti". meanwhil, tim osborn, head of yuko main sharehold' group menatep, said that yuko mai have to declar itself bankrupt, and that legal action would be taken, outsid russia, against the auction winner. report from russia sai baikal ha paid a deposit of nearli $1.7bn from a sberbank (save bank) account to the russian feder properti fund, for yugansk.

the sale came despit a restrain order issu by a us court deal with the firm's bankruptci applic for chapter 11 protect. yuko ha alwai insist the auction wa state-sponsor theft but russian author argu thei were impos the law, try to recov billion in unpaid tax. there were origin four regist bidder, and with it close ti to the kremlin, state-back ga monopoli gazprom had been seen as favourit. but just two compani turn up for the auction, gazprom and the unknown baikal financ group, name after a larg freshwat lake in siberia. and, accord to tass new agenc, gazprom did not make a singl bid, leav the wai open for baikal, which paid abov the auction start price of 246.75bn roubl.

mysteri firm baikal financ group is offici regist in the central russian region of tver, but mani analyst believ it mai be link to gazprom. kaha kiknavelidz, analyst at troika dialog, said: "i think a decis that yugansk should end up with gazprom wa taken a long time ago. so the main question wa how to structur thi transact.

"i would not exclud that the structur of the deal ha slightli chang and gazprom now ha a partner. "i would also not exclud that baikal will declin to pai in 14 dai, that ar given by law, and gazprom is then recognis as the winner. thi would give gazprom an extra 14 dai to accumul the need fund. "anoth surpris wa that the winner paid a signific premium abov the start price." howev, gazprom ha announc it is not link to baikal in ani wai. and paul collison, chief analyst at brunswick ub, said: "i see no plausibl explan for the theori that baikal wa repres compet interest. "yugansk will most like end up with gazprom but could still end up with the govern. there is still potenti for surpris." yugansk is at the heart of yuko - pump close to a million barrel of oil a dai. the unit wa seiz by the govern which claim the oil giant ow more than $27bn in tax and fine. yuko sai those tax demand ar exorbit, and had sought refug in us court.

the us bankruptci court's initi order on thursdai - to temporarili block the sale - in respons to yuko file for chapter 11 bankruptci protect, wa upheld in a second rule on saturdai. the protect, if recognis by the russian author, would have allow yuko' current manag to retain control of the busi and block the sale of ani compani asset. yuko ha said the sale amount to expropri - punish for the polit ambit of it founder, mikhail khodorkovski. mr khodorkovski is now in jail, on separ fraud charg. but presid vladimir putin ha describ the affair as a crackdown on corrupt - and the bbc's sarah rainsford in moscow sai most russian believ the destruct of yuko is now inevit. hour befor the auction lawyer for menatep, a group through which mr khodorkovski and hi associ control yuko, said thei would take legal action in other countri. menatep lawyer, who were exclud from observ the auction, said thei would retali by seek injunct in foreign court to impound russian oil and ga export.
