mysteri surround new yuko owner

the fate of russia's yuganskneftega - the oil firm sold to a littl-known buyer on sundai - is the subject of frantic specul in moscow.

baikal financ group emerg as the auction winner, agre to pai 260.75bn roubl (£4.8bn; $9.4bn). russia's newspap claim that baikal wa a front for ga monopoli gazprom, which had been expect to win. the sale ha destroi yuko, onc the owner of yuganskneftega, said founder mikhail khodorkovski. "yuganskneftega ha been sold in the best tradit of the 90s. the author have made themselv a wonder christma present - russia's most effici oil compani ha been destroi," the interfax new agenc quot mr khodorkovski as sai via hi lawyer.

gazprom had been expect to win the auction but is thought to have fail to get financ for the deal after a us court injunct bar it from take part. last week, yuko file for chapter 11 bankruptci protect in the us in a last-ditch attempt to hang on to yuganskneftega, which account for 60% of it output. a us judg ban gazprom from take part in the auction and bar intern bank from provid the firm with cash. "thei screw up the financ," said ronald smith, an analyst at renaiss capit in moscow. "and gazprom doesn't have thi sort of monei ly around."

gazprom ha deni that it is behind the purchas. "it is a front for somebodi but not necessarili for gazprom," said oleg maximov, an analyst at troika dialog in moscow. "we don't know if thi compani is link 100% to gazprom.

"we tri to find it, but we couldn't and as far as i know, the paper had the same result." the sale ha howev bought time for gazprom to rais the monei need for the purchas, analyst said. on scenario is that baikal will not pai when it is suppos to in two week time, put yuganskneftega back in the hand of bailiff and back within the reach of gazprom. yuko is not plan on let go of it unit without a fight and ha threaten legal action against ani buyer. menatep, yuko main sharehold' group, ha also threaten legal action. yuko claim that it is be punish for the polit ambit of it founder, mikhail khodorkovski, who is now in jail face separ fraud charg. it ha been hit with more than $27bn in tax and fine and mani observ now sai that the break up of the firm that account for 20% of russia's oil output is inevit.
