no season lift for hous market

a swath of figur have provid further evid of a slowdown in the uk properti market.

the council of mortgag lender (cml), british banker associ (bba) and build societi associ (bsa) all said mortgag lend wa slow. cml figur show gross lend fell by 4% in novemb as the number of peopl bui new home fell. elsewher, the bba ad underli mortgag lend rose by £4m in novemb, compar to octob's £4.29m. the cml said that loan for new properti purchas fell 25% year-on-year to 85,000 - the lowest total seen sinc februari 2003.

data from the cml show lend fell to just over £25bn in novemb, from £25.5bn a year earlier. separ figur from the build societi associ show the valu of mortgag approv -- loan agre but not yet made -- stood 32% lower than at the same time last year, at a season-adjust £2.98bn. the figur come hot on the heel of new data from properti websit rightmov which suggest owner must indulg in a "winter sale" and slash price by up to 8%. mile shipsid, commerci director at rightmov, said seller would have to be "more realist with their ask price" to tempt buyer. the averag ask price of a home fell by more than £600 from £190,329 in novemb to £189,733 in decemb, while the length of time it take to sell a home rose to 81 dai from 53 in the summer.

rightmov said estat agent were set to enter 2005 with a third more properti on their book than a year ago. "even onc the quieter holidai period is over, seller will find themselv compet with a lot of other properti on the market. in ani busi, excess suppli and low demand mean on thing - cut price," mr shipsid said.

"the proof is that some properti that have been appropri discount ar sell, even in the current market." overal, ask price have fallen 3.3% from their juli peak as the equival of £6,500 ha been cut from an averag properti. a host of mortgag lender and economist have predict that properti price will either fall or stagnat in 2005. "what is appar is a pictur of a slow market, but on that should remain stabl as we return to more normal volum of lend over 2005 as a whole," cml director gener michael coogan said. "it's a fairli consist pictur, show that mortgag demand ha fallen back again, which is consist with a continu correct in the hous market," investec economist philip shaw said. "howev, the figur do suggest onli a modest weaken, and we stand by our view that the properti market will remain in the doldrum for some time, though a collaps is still unlik."
