yuko seek court action on sale

yuko will return to a us court on wednesdai to seek sanction against baikal financ group, the littl-known firm which ha bought it main asset.

yuko ha said it will sue baikal and other involv in the sale of yuganskneftega for $20bn in damag. yuko' us lawyer will attempt to have baikal asset frozen after the russian govern ignor a us court order last week block the sale. baikal's background and it motiv for bui the unit ar still unclear.

russian newspap have claim that baikal - which bought the yuganskneftega product unit for $9.4bn (261bn roubl, £4.8bn) on sundai at a state provok auction - ha strong link with surgutneftega, russia's fourth-biggest oil produc. mani observ believ that the unit, which produc 60% of yuko' oil output, could ultim fall into the hand of surgutneftega or even gazprom, the state ga firm which opt out of the auction.

the russian govern forc the sale of yuko' most lucr asset as part of it action to enforc a $27bn back tax bill it sai the compani ow. yuko' us lawyer claim the auction wa illeg becaus the firm had file for bankruptci and therefor it asset were now under the protect of us bankruptci law which ha worldwid jurisdict. on wednesdai, yuko will also seek further legal remedi to prevent the break-up of the group. "we believ the auction wa illeg and we intend to pursu all legal recours avail to us," yuko spokesman mike lake told agenc franc press. "if it export that oil, it will be market a stolen product," he ad. the futur ownership of yuganksneftega remain unclear amid widespread suggest that baikal wa establish as a front for other interest.

speak on tuesdai, presid putin said baikal wa own by individu investor who plan to build relationship with other russian energi firm interest in the develop of yuganskneftega. presid putin also suggest that china's nation petroleum corpor could plai a role in the unit's futur after sign a commerci agreement with gazprom to work on joint energi project. yuko ha claim that the sale of it main asset will lead to the collaps of the compani. comment and yuko itself claim the firm is the target of a govern campaign to destroi it becaus of the polit ambit of it founder, mikhail khodorkovski.
