senior fanni mae boss resign

the two most senior execut at us mortgag giant fanni mae have resign after account irregular were uncov at the compani.

chief execut franklin rain, a former senior offici in the clinton administr, and chief financi offic tim howard have left the firm. fanni mae wa criticis by financi regul and could have to restat it earn by up to $9bn (£4.6bn). it is america's second largest financi institut.

recent investig have expos extens account error at fanni mae, which suppli fund to america's $8 trillion mortgag market. last week, the firm wa admonish by the secur and exchang commiss which said it had made major error in it financi report.

the financi regul said fanni mae would have to rais substanti new capit to restor it balanc sheet. analyst said the sec's critic made it imposs for fanni mae's senior execut to remain. mr rain, head of the offic of manag and budget under presid clinton, ha taken earli retir while mr howard ha also step down, the compani said on tuesdai. kpmg, fanni mae's independ auditor, will also be replac. "by my earli retir, i have held myself account," mr rain said in a statement.

fanni mae wa found to have violat account rule relat to deriv - financi instrument us to hedg against fluctuat in interest rate - and some pre-paid loan. as a result, it could be forc to restat $9bn in earn over the past four year, effect wipe out a third of the compani's profit sinc 2001. although not make loan directli to buyer, fanni mae is the largest singl player in the mortgag market, underwrit half of all us hous purchas. the firm oper under charter from the us congress. it ha face sting critic from congression leader who held hear into it financ earlier thi year and from govern regul, the offic of feder hous enterpris oversight (ofheo). "we ar encourag that the board's announc signal a new cultur and a new direct for fanni mae," armando falcon, ofheo director said. the problem afflict fanni mae ar just the latest to hit the us mortgag industri. freddi mac, the countri's other largest mortgag firm, wa forc to restat it earn by $4.4bn last year and pai a $125m fine after an investig of it book.
