fresh hope after argentin crisi

three year after argentina wa hit by a deadli econom crisi, there is fresh hope.

the countri's economi is set to grow about 8% thi year after see 9% growth last year, a sharp turnaround from 2002 when output fell 11%. the unemploy rate is improv, too: it is set to slip below 13% by the end of the year, down from 20% in mai 2002. true, problem remain, but the overal pictur is on of vast improv. even the intern monetari fund (imf) admit thi. "the argentin author ar proud, should be proud, of the strong perform of the economi," thoma dawson, an imf director, said earlier thi month.

argentina ha made a remark recoveri from a hideou and lengthi recess which in 2001 culmin in the govern halt debt repay to it privat creditor. the debt default spark a deep and prolong econom crisi which, at least initi, wa made wors by the govern's decis. pension payment were halt and bank account frozen as part of auster measur introduc by the govern to deal with the countri's massiv debt. in respons, angri crowd of ordinari argentin took to the street where dozen of live were lost in clash with the polic. two presid and at least three financ minist resign in less than a month. argentina wa on the brink of collaps. the fix wa found in the currenc market with the abandon of the peso's decad-long peg to the us dollar in februari 2002. the subsequ devalu saw thousand of peopl's life save disappear. scath of compani went bust. "three year ago, everi sector [of the economi] wa hit by the crisi," said entrepreneur drayton valentin. it realli wa dire.

but sinc then, the gener mood on the ground ha improv dramat, in part becaus the devalu help attract fresh direct invest from abroad and stimul busi within brazil. "agricultur and tourism ar help," said entrepreneur drayton valentin.

mr valentin, who wa born in the unit state but grew up in argentina, wa fortun: at the time of the crisi, hi save were held in dollar account abroad. but now he is us hi monei to help with the start-up a trade compani. he explain that initi, hi firm is go to export build materi to spain and unit state. then, he would like to diversifi to other area, depend on the market. "local there is a sens of recoveri, mani compani ar export now," he said, note that a lot of firm, which were close dure the crisi, ar re-open.

but not all that shine is gold. argentina is still burden by it failur to pai privat creditor at the end of 2001. presid nestor kirchner's administr is still try to hammer out an agreement with the creditor, but with the debt' nomin valu stand at around $100bn it is not prove easi. debt default make further lend agreement both difficult and expens to negoti. argentina's current offer impli that the creditor would get just 25 cent for each dollar thei ar ow, accord to the creditor. understand, thei want more and until thei do, both thei and other ar loath to continu lend. for presid kirchner, thi prove a hopeless challeng. real loss have been suffer and somebodi ha to pai, observ jack boorman, advis to imf's manag director, rodrigo rato. "everyon need to keep in mind the enorm cost on the part of both creditor and the argentin societi and peopl that will have been endur by the time a settlement is reach," he said. "the cost is enorm, and continu to be paid, and will not be revers by ani restructur."

with the intern negoti be troubl, it is of littl help to presid kirchner that the domest situat remain strain as well.

thi is partli becaus there ar still bank account holder who ar wait to recov some of their deposit. "the situat is bad for those who had previous chosen to save in argentina, " said carlo baez silva, presid of aara, an associ that repres bank account and bond holder. few peopl have recov more than about half their save, mr baez silva estim, point out that mani of the saver who have lost out ar pension or other who onc trust the govern, peopl who set asid monei for the futur in the belief that their invest would be safe. "a lot of them invest in good faith," he said. "the argentin state respond by take most of their invest." the affair ha made mr baez silva disillus with the countri's legal system. on occas, the suprem court ha rule against the interest of the peopl he repres, he sai, insist that the system cannot be trust. "peopl have to deposit their monei in the bank, not necessarili becaus thei trust them but becaus crime is so high that peopl cannot have their monei in their home beneath their mattress." mr valentin, who wa born in the unit state but grew up in argentina, agre. "if i have to save peso [the local currenc] there is not much problem, but i will think twice befor i deposit dollar in a bank".
