putin back state grab for yuko

russia's presid ha defend the purchas of yuko' kei product unit by state-own oil firm rosneft, sai it follow free market principl.

vladimir putin said it wa quit within the right of a state-own compani to ensur it interest were met. rosneft bought 100% of baikal financ group, in a move that amount to the renationalis of a major chunk of russia's boom oil industri. rosneft will now control about 16% of russia's total crude oil output. yuko share jump in moscow, climb as much as 50% befor be suspend.

rosneft is alreadi in the process of merg with gazprom, the world's biggest ga compani, a move that will see gazprom return to major state-ownership.

baikal wa the surpris buyer of oil and ga giant yuko's main product divis at a forc auction on sundai. "everyth wa done by market method," mr putin said at hi year-end press confer in moscow. shed some light on the kremlin's motiv, mr putin refer to a period of so-call "cowboi capit" that follow the collaps of the soviet union.

he said privatis carri out in the earli 1990s had involv trickeri, includ law break, by peopl seek to acquir valuabl state properti. "now the state, us market method, is safeguard it interest. i think thi is quit normal," the russian presid said. a rosneft spokesman ha said the acquisit is part of it plan to build a "balanc, nation energi corpor."

the latest announc come after more than a year of wrangl that ha push yuko, on of russia's biggest compani to the brink of collaps. the russian govern put yuko's yuganskneftega subsidiari up for sale last week after hit the compani with a $27bn (£14bn) bill for back tax and fine.

analyst sai that yuko's legal attempt to block the auction by file for bankruptci protect in the us ar probabl what caus thi week's cloak-and-dagger deal. gazprom, the compani origin tip to bui yuganskneftega, wa ban from take part in the auction by a us court injunct. by sell the yuko unit to littl-known baikal and then to rosneft, russia is abl to circumv a host of tricki legal landmin, analyst said. "you cannot sue the russian govern," said eric krau, a strategist at moscow's sovlink secur. "the russian govern ha sovereign immun." "the govern is renationalis yuganskneftega."

even so, analyst reckon that the saga still ha a long wai to go. the rosneft announc came just hour after yuko accus gazprom of illeg take part in sundai's auction. it ha said it will be seek damag of $20bn. the claim wa made at the latest hear in the us bankruptci court in houston, texa, where yuko, had file for chapter 11 bankruptci protect. if found in contempt of the us court order block the auction, gazprom could face have foreign asset seiz. yuko' lawyer had also been expect to try to have baikal's asset frozen. lawyer claim the auction wa illeg becaus yuko - with an offic in houston - had file for bankruptci and therefor it asset were under the protect of us law which ha worldwid jurisdict. further muddi the water is a merger between rosneft and gazprom which author have said will go ahead as plan.
