banker lose sexism claim

a former execut at the london offic of merril lynch ha lost her £7.5m ($14.6m) sex discrimin case against the us invest bank.

an employ tribun dismiss stephani villalba's alleg of sexual discrimin and unequ pai. but the 42-year-old won her claim of unfair dismiss, result from her sack in august 2003. her partial victori is like to cap her compens to about £55,000, a tini fraction of what she ask for. the extent of damag will be assess in the new year. the action - the biggest claim heard by an employ tribun in the uk - had been view as someth of a test case.

the tribun decid that ms villalba had been unfairli dismiss becaus, have been remov from a senior post, she wa entitl to wait to see if a suitabl altern posit could be found in the organis. ms villalba, the former head of merril's privat client busi in europ, ha made no decis on whether to appeal.

a spokesman for her lawyer describ the decis as "veri disappoint", but point to some critic of merril's procedur within the lengthi judgement. the tribun upheld ms villalba's claim of victimis on certain specif issu, includ bulli e-mail in connect with a contract, but said it found no evid of "laddish cultur" at the bank. "we said from the start that thi case wa about perform not gender," merril said in a statement. "ms villalba wa remov by the veri same person who had promot her into the posit and who then replac her with anoth woman. "merril lynch is dedic to creat a true meritocraci where everi employe ha the opportun to advanc base on their skill and hard work."

base in london's financi district, ms villalba work for merril's global privat client busi in europ, invest fund for some of merril's most import custom. but in 2003 her employ told her she had no futur after 17 year with the compani, and she wa made redund. merril lynch deni ms villalba's claim and said she wa remov from her post becaus of the extens loss the firm wa suffer on the contin. the firm had told the tribun that ms villalba's divis had been lose about $1m a week. merril said ms villalba lack the leadership skill to turn around the unit.
