batter dollar hit anoth low

the dollar ha fallen to a new record low against the euro after data fuell fresh concern about the us economi.

the greenback hit $1.3516 in thin new york trade, befor ralli to $1.3509. the dollar ha weaken sharpli sinc septemb when it trade about $1.20, amid continu worri over the level of the us trade and budget deficit. meanwhil, franc's financ minist ha said the world face "econom catastroph" unless the us work with europ and asia on currenc control. herv gaymard said he would seek action on the issu at the next meet of g7 countri in februari. minist from european and asian govern have recent call on the us to strengthen the dollar, sai the excess high valu of the euro wa start to hurt their export-driven economi. "it's absolut essenti that at the meet of the g7 our american friend understand that we need coordin manag at the world level," said mr gaymard.

thursdai's new low for the dollar came after data wa releas show year-on-year sale of new home in the us had fallen 12% in novemb - with some analyst sai thi could indic problem ahead for consum activ.

commerc depart data also show consum spend - which drive two third of the us economi - grew just 0.2% last month. the figur wa weaker than forecast - and fell short of the 0.8% rise in octob. the offici us polici is that it support a strong dollar but mani market observ believ it is happi to let the dollar fall becaus of the boost to it export.

the us govern ha face pressur from export organis which have publicli state the currenc still ha further to fall from "abnorm and danger height" set in 2002. the us sai it will let market forc determin the dollar's strength rather than interven directli. statement from presid bush in recent week highlight hi aim to cut the twin us deficit have prompt slight upturn in the currenc. but while some observ said the quiet trade on thursdai had exacerb small move in the market, most agre the underli trend remain downward. the dollar ha now fallen for a third consecut year and analyst ar forecast a further, albeit less dramat weaken, in 2005. "i can see it finish the year around $1.35 and we can see that it's go to be a steadi track upward for the euro/dollar in 2005, finish the year around $1.40," said adrian hugh, currenc strategist with hsbc in london.
