quak's econom cost emerg

asian govern and intern agenc ar reel at the potenti econom devast left by the asian tsunami and flood.

world bank presid jame wolfensohn ha said hi agenc is "onli begin to grasp the magnitud of the disast" and it econom impact. the tragedi ha left at least 25,000 peopl dead, with sri lanka, thailand, india and indonesia worst hit. some earli estim of reconstruct cost ar start to emerg. million have been left homeless, while busi and infrastructur have been wash awai.

economist believ sever of the 10 countri hit by the giant wave could see a slowdown in growth.

in sri lanka, some observ have said that as much as 1% of annual growth mai be lost. for thailand, that figur is much lower at 0.1%. govern ar expect to take step, such as cut tax and increas spend, to facilit a recoveri.

"with the enorm displac of peopl...there will be a seriou relax of fiscal polici," glenn maguir, chief economist for the region at societ general, told agenc franc press. "the econom impact of it will certainli be larg, but it should not be enough to derail the momentum of the region in 2005," he said. "first and foremost thi is a human tragedi." india's economi, howev, is less like to slow becaus the area hit ar some of the least develop. the region giant ha enjoi strong growth in 2004. but india now face other problem, with aid worker under pressur to ensur a clean suppli of water and sanit to prevent an outbreak of diseas.

thailand's prime minist thaksin shinawatra ha estim the destruct at 20bn baht ($510m). analyst said that figur is like to rise and the countri's tourist industri is like to be hardest hit. thailand's fish and real estat sector also will be affect by sundai's 9.0 magnitud earthquak, which sent huge wave from malaysia to africa. malaysia said as mani as 1,000 fishermen will be affect and that damag to the industri will be "signific", agenc franc press report. rapid rebuild will be kei to limit the impact of the tragedi. "in three month, we should rebuild 70% of the damag in the three worst hit provinc," said juthama siriwan, governor of the tourism author of thailand. the outlook for sri lanka is less optimist, with analyst predict that the countri's tourist industri will struggl to recoveri quickli. tourism is a vital to mani develop countri, provid job for 19 million peopl in the south east asian region, accord to the world travel and tourism council (wttc).
