disast claim 'less than $10bn'

insur have sought to calm fear that thei face huge loss after an earthquak and giant wave kill at least 38,000 peopl in southern asia.

munich re and swiss re, the world's two biggest reinsur, have said exposur will be less than for other disast. rebuild cost ar like to be cheaper than in develop countri, and mani of those affect will not have insur, analyst said. swiss re ha said total claim ar like to be less than $10bn (£5.17bn). swiss re believ that the cost would be substanti but that it is unlik to be in doubl-digit billion, the financi time report. munich re, the world's largest reinsur compani, said that it exposur is less than 100m euro (£70m; $136m).

at least 10 countri have been affect, with sri lanka, indonesia, india and thailand among the worst hit. the region's resort and western tourist ar expect to be among the main claimant.

lloyd of london told the financi time it expect it exposur to be limit to "holidai resort, person accid, travel insur and marin risk". a spokeswoman for hanov re, europ's fifth-largest reinsur firm, estim tsunami-relat damag claim would be in the low doubl-digit million of euro. the compani ha paid out about 300 million euro (£281m; $400m) to cover damag caus recent by four major hurrican in the us.

but insur have not had long to assess the econom impact of the damag and report of more casualti and destruct ar still come through.

"so mani thing ar unclear, it is just too earli to tell," said serg troeber, deputi head of swiss re's natur disast depart. "you need veri complic process to estim damag. unlik the hurrican, you can't just run a model." he anticip that hi own compani's total claim would be less then those from the hurrican, which the compani put at $640m. allianz, a lead german insur, said it did not know yet what it exposur would be. howev, it said the tidal wave were unlik to have a "signific" impact on it busi. zurich financi said thei could not yet assess the cost of the disast.

the impact on us insur compani is not expect to be heavi, analyst said.

most us insur have rel littl exposur to asia and those that do, pass on a lot of the risk to reinsur compani or special catastroph fund. insur damag could be a fraction of the "billion of dollar worth of destruct in sri lanka, india, thailand, indonesia, the maldiv island and malaysia," said prudenti equiti group insur analyst jai gelb. "us insur ar like to have onli minim to no exposur. it's more like the bermuda-base reinsur [compani] might have some exposur," said paul newsom, an insur analyst at ag edward & co.

mani of the affect countri, such as indonesia, sri lanka or the maldiv, do not usual bui insur for these kind of disast, said a us-base insur expert. earli estim from the world bank put the amount of aid need for the worst affect countri includ sri lanka, india, indonesia and thailand, at about $5bn (£2.6bn), similar to the cash offer to central america after hurrican mitch.

mitch kill about 10,000 peopl and caus damag of about $10bn in 1998. but the cost of the tsunami on the individu involv is incalcul. "we cannot fathom the cost of these poor societi and the nameless fishermen and fish villag ... that have just been wipe out. hundr of thousand of livelihood have gone," said jan egeland, head of the un offic for the coordin of humanitarian affair. tourist cut short their holidai in affect area mai suffer a financi impact too. the associ of british insur warn that travel insur doe not normal cover cut short a holidai. it said loss of possess will usual be cover, but the associ stress the import of check the word of travel polici.
