us to probe airlin travel chao

the us govern is to investig two airlin- us airwai and delta air line' comair subsidiari - after travel chao over the christma weekend.

staff call in sick at us airwai and comput failur at comair left 30,000 passeng strand and 10,000 piec of baggag undeliv. us airwai is in chapter 11 bankruptci protect for the second time in two year, and battl to cut cost. it is current try to negoti pai cut with flight and baggag staff.

transport secretari norman mineta said he wa "deepli concern" at the disrupt to passeng, and order a thorough investig. comair's comput breakdown plung it flight-crew schedul system into disarrai. altogeth, some 1,100 flight were cancel over the holidai long weekend. mr mineta said it wa import to understand "what happen, why it happen and whether the carrier properli plan for the holidai travel period and respond appropri to consum need in the aftermath".

ad to the atmospher of chao were mountain of luggag left to pile up when a third of us airwai' baggag handl staff call in sick. there wa also a shortag of us airwai flight attend, with nearli a fifth sai thei were too sick to work, lead to mani flight cancel. howev, union offici deni there had been a deliber "sickout". thei said that mani peopl have flu at thi time of year and that the airlin is chronic understaf.

us airwai end up cancel over 100 flight on christma dai, strand passeng in as mani as 119 airport. ground crew at us airwai, the seventh-largest us airlin, which is now in chapter 11 bankruptci protect, face a court-impos pai cut next month. the airlin need to negoti other paycut if it is to find a rout out of bankruptci. it is look for paycut total $800m.

"us airwai ha a full-scale employe mutini on it hand," comment michael boyd, an industri consult. disrupt to flight schedul could discourag custom from fly with us airwai, reduc revenu. us airwai had to cancel approxim 65 flight on thursdai, 180 on fridai, 140 on saturdai, 43 on sundai and 15 on mondai, said industri offici. the airlin said it wa "embarrass by the situat" and "deepli regret ani inconveni caus to custom," the probe will focu on the industri's complianc with a 1999 agreement aim at improv the qualiti of passeng servic that ha so far allow airlin to avoid congression-mandat standard. analyst said the christma chao cast doubt on us airwai's abil to emerg from bankruptci - and wa like to worsen the financ of troubl delta, parent of comair. comair "deepli regret the inconveni to all of our custom caus by the sever winter storm in the ohio river vallei dure the busi holidai season, exacerb by problem with the airlin's crew schedul system, caus addit flight delai and cancel," the delta subsidiari said in a statement.
