giant wave damag s asia economi

govern, aid agenc, insur and travel firm ar among those count the cost of the massiv earthquak and wave that hammer southern asia.

the worst-hit area ar sri lanka, india, indonesia and thailand, with at least 23,000 peopl kill. earli estim from the world bank put the amount of aid need at about $5bn (£2.6bn), similar to the cash offer central america after hurrican mitch. mitch kill about 10,000 peopl and caus damag of about $10bn in 1998. world bank spokesman damien milverton told the wall street journal that he expect an aid packag of financ and debt relief.

tourism is a vital part of the economi of the stricken countri, provid job for 19 million peopl in the south east asian region, accord to the world travel and tourism council (wttc). in the maldiv island, in the indian ocean, two-third of all job depend on tourism.

but the damag cover fish, farm and busi too, with hundr of thousand of build and small boat destroi by the wave. intern agenc have pledg their support; most sai it is imposs to gaug the extent of the damag yet. the intern monetari fund (imf) ha promis rapid action to help the govern of the stricken countri cope.

"the imf stand readi to do it part to assist these nation with appropri support in their time of need," said manag director rodrigo rato. onli sri lanka and bangladesh current receiv imf support, while indonesia, the quak's epicentr, ha recent graduat from imf assist. it is up to govern to decid if thei want imf help. other agenc, such as the asian develop bank, have said that it is too earli to comment on the amount of aid need. there is no underestim the size of the problem, howev. the unit nation' emerg relief coordin, jan egeland, said that "thi mai be the worst nation disast in recent histori becaus it is affect so mani heavili popul coastal area... so mani vulner commun. "mani peopl will have [had] their livelihood, their whole futur destroi in a few second." he warn that "the longer term effect mani be as devast as the tidal wave or the tsunami itself" becaus of the risk of epidem from pollut drink water.

insur ar also struggl to assess the cost of the damag, but sever big player believ the final bill is like to be less than the $27bn cost of the hurrican that batter the us earlier thi year.

"the region that's affect is veri big so we have to check countri-by-countri what the situat is", said serg troeber, deputi head of the natur disast depart at swiss re, the world's second biggest reinsur firm. "i should assum, howev, that the overal dimens of insur damag is below the storm damag of the us," he said. munich re, the world's biggest reinsur, said: "thi is primarili a human tragedi. it is too earli for us to state what our financi burden will be." allianz ha said it see no signific impact on it profit. howev, a low insur bill mai simpli reflect the gener poverti of much of the region, rather than the level of econom devast for those who live there.

the intern feder of the red cross and red crescent societi told the reuter new agenc that it wa seek $6.5m for emerg aid.

"the biggest health challeng we face is the spread of waterborn diseas, particularli malaria and diarrhoea," the aid agenc wa quot as sai. the european union ha said it will deliv 3m euro (£2.1m; $4.1m) of aid, accord to the wall street journal. the eu's humanitarian aid commission, loui michel, wa quot as sai that it wa kei to bring aid "in those vital hour and dai immedi after the disast". other countri also ar report to have pledg cash, while the us state depart said it wa examin what aid wa need in the region. get compani and busi up and run also mai plai a vital role in help commun recov from the weekend's event.

mani of the worst-hit area, such as sri lanka, thailand's phuket island and the maldiv, ar popular tourist resort that ar kei to local economi.

decemb and januari ar two of the busiest month for the travel in southern asia and the damag will be even more keenli felt as the industri wa onli just begin to emerg from a post 9/11 slump. growth ha been rapid in southeast asia, with the world tourism organis figur show a 45% increas in tourist revenu in the region dure the first 10 month of 2004. in southern asia that expans is 23%. "india continu to post excel result thank to increas promot and product develop, but also to the upsurg in busi travel driven by the rapid econom develop of the countri," the wto said. "arriv to other destin such as... maldiv and sri lanka also thrive." in thailand, tourism account for about 6% of the countri's annual gross domest product, or about $8bn. in singapor the figur is close to 5%. tourism also bring in much need foreign currenc. in the short-term, howev, travel compani ar cancel flight and trip. that ha hit share across asia and europ, with investor sai that earn and econom growth ar like to slow.
