deutsch attack yuko case

german invest bank deutsch bank ha challeng the right of yuko to claim bankruptci protect in the us.

in a court file on tuesdai, it said the russian oil giant ha few texa ti beyond bank account and a texa-base financ chief. deutsch bank claim yuko had artifici manufactur a legal case to stop the sale of it main asset. it had want to help fund gazprom's plan for a $10bn (£5.18bn) bid for yuko unit yuganskneftega.

deutsch bank would have earn larg fee from the deal, which could not be carri out becaus us chapter 11 bankruptci rule made the kremlin's auction of yuganskneftega on 19 decemb illeg under us law.

but the us bankruptci court judg in texa grant yuko an injunct that bar gazprom and it lender from take part. yuganskneftega will ultim end up with gazprom. the win bidder at the auction wa a previous unknown firm, baikal financ group, which wa snap up dai later by rosneft, a russian oil firm that is in the process of merg with gazprom. the effect of these transact is to renationalis yuganskneftega. deutsch bank contend yuko file for bankruptci earlier thi month in texa in a desper and unsuccess bid to stave off the 19 decemb auction of it top unit by the russian govern, which wa in a tax disput with yuko.

"thi blatant attempt to artifici manufactur a basi for jurisdict constitut caus to dismiss thi case," deutsch bank said in it court file. mike lake, a spokesman for yuko' lawyer, said on tuesdai that the compani stand by it legal action. yuko is confid of it right to us bankruptci protect, and "we ar prepar to be back in court defend that posit again," he said. yuko ha said it intend to seek $20bn in damag from the buyer of yuganskneftega onc the sale final goe through. in it file, deutsch bank said houston wa "a jurisdict in which yuko own no real or person properti and conduct no busi oper."

it also said the us bankruptci court should not becom involv in "a tax disput between the feder and on of it corpor citizen". it suggest the european court or an intern arbitr tribun were more appropri jurisdict for the legal fight between russia and yuko. the next hear in the bankruptci is expect on 6 januari. analyst believ the tax disput between the russian govern and yuko is partli driven by russian presid vladimir putin's hostil hostil to the polit ambit of ex-yuko boss mikhail khordokovski. mr khodorkovski is in jail, and on trial for fraud and tax evas.
