wmc sai xstrata bid is too low

australian mine firm wmc resourc ha said it is worth up to 30% more than a hostil 7.4bn australian dollar ($5.8bn; £3bn) bid by rival xstrata.

there is now pressur on swiss-base xstrata to increas it takeov offer. a report from invest firm grant samuel in wmc defenc document valu wmc share at a$7.17 to a$8.24, against xstrata's bid of a$6.35 a share. analyst said the defenc document provid more detail on wmc, and mai trigger a possibl rival bid. "if a bid is go to emerg it is probabl like in the next on to two week," said daiwa secur analyst mark pervan. he said the valuat would put increas pressur on xstrata to look at "sweeten" it offer. marc gonsalv, an execut at xstrata, said: "we will review the inform contain in the target's statement over the next week or so." he ad: "while we will review the assumpt made by grant samuel in detail, we ar extrem sceptic of their conclus, and suggest that wmc sharehold take extrem care in presum that these optimist assumpt ar capabl of be realis."

last month australia's competit watchdog said it would not oppos the purchas of wmc by zurich and london-base xstrata. on tuesdai, wmc chairman tommi bergman said in a statement the director believ it wa in sharehold' best interest to reject the offer. he said wmc would pursu "valu-creat option" provid by a portfolio of "world class asset". and wmc chief execut andrew michelmor claim the xstrata offer wa aim at creat valu for xstrata's sharehold, and wa not be made for the benefit of wmc's sharehold. grant samuel said it valuat of wmc wa base on lower averag price for nickel, copper and uranium than current market level. "ani longer term commod price improv would onli improv our outlook," mr michelmor said.

in 2003 xstrata acquir australia's largest copper miner - mim hold. wmc resourc is the world's third-largest produc of concentr nickel, and also a miner of copper and uranium. it own the olymp dam mine in south australia, which contain about on-third of the world's known uranium resourc and is also the world's fourth largest copper mine. xstrata is a global mine giant with oper in australia, south africa, spain, germani, argentina and the uk. it core product ar copper, coke coal, thermal coal, ferrochrom, vanadium and zinc. it also ha grow busi in gold, lead and silver.
