indian oil firm ey yuko asset

india's biggest oil explor firm, oil & natur ga corp (ongc), sai it is in talk to bui the former asset of troubl russian crude produc yuko.

"we ar in touch with the concern russian entiti about the yuko asset and other opportun in russia," said ongc chairman subir raha. local press had report that ongc wa look to bui 15% of yuko' former kei oil product unit for $2bn (£1bn). yuko is be broken up by russian author to pai a massiv tax bill.

it wa forc to sell it kei product unit yuganskneftega (yugansk) last month after be hit with a bill of $27bn in unpaid tax and fine.

state-own rosneft now own yugansk and russia ha said it will turn the oil produc into a stand-alon firm. indian oil minist mani shankar aiyar discuss ongc's plan dure a trip to moscow last year, and the topic came up again dure russian presid vladimir putin's recent visit to new delhi. "it would make great sens for us to build on that," said mr aiyar. india's oil product ha stagnat over recent year, and it is have to look abroad to secur futur suppli. india import about 70% of it total oil consumpt. at the same time, india's economi is boom and the countri's thirst for oil is so strong that it ha help push up the price of crude worldwid.

india produc about 793,000 barrel of oil per dai (bpd), littl chang sinc the start of the 1990s, accord to oil industri analyst dougla-westwood. consumpt, meanwhil, ha jump to 2.4 million bpd, compar with 474,000 bpd in 1973.

"for countri to develop, thei have to have access to energi," said john westwood, manag director of oil industri analyst dougla-westwood. india is a "dramat grow economi that must have access to oil". by bui into yugansk, ongc would be abl to reduc it depend on gulf state for oil import, mr westwood explain, especi as the chanc of find and exploit resourc within india ar slim. "we forecast that indian product will go into signific declin," mr westwood said. "by 2020, product mai onli be at half of todai's level." ongc, which is major-own by the indian state, alreadi ha bought petroleum asset in countri includ vietnam, sudan and russia. the compani is a partner with rosneft in the sakhalin-1 oil field off russia's siberian coast.

ongc is, howev, not the onli firm interest in yugansk.

chines crude compani china nation petroleum ha also been mention as a possibl investor, while on thursdai, itali refus to rule out an interest. ongc's interest is the latest twist in a saga that ha seen on of the world's biggest oil produc brought to it knee. the disput is partli driven by presid putin's clampdown on the polit ambit of ex-yuko boss mikhail khodorkovski, who is current in jail on charg of fraud and tax evas. yuko ha been battl the russian author for more than a year and ha file for bankruptci protect in the us. analyst have question how long it can continu to surviv without yugansk. on thursdai, a us court said it will hear argument for yuko' bankruptci claim to be thrown out on 16 februari. should that happen, yuko will have littl chanc of claw back it asset, analyst said.
