worldcom boss' $54m payout

ten former director at worldcom have agre to pai $54m (£28.85m), includ $18m from their own pocket, to settl a class action lawsuit, report sai.

jame wareham, a lawyer repres on of the director, told reuter the 10 had agre to pai those who lost billion when the firm collaps. the remain $36m will be paid by the director' insur. but, a spokesman for the prosecutor, new york state comptrol alan hevesi, said no formal agreement had been made.

corpor govern expert said that if the director do dip into their own pocket for the settlement, it will set a new standard for the account of boss, when the firm thei overse face problem.

"director veri rare pai," said charl elson, chairman of the center for corpor govern at the univers of delawar. he ad that the settlement "send a pretti strong shockwav through the director world". a formal agreement on the payout is expect to be sign on thursdai in a us district court in manhattan. earlier, the new york time had report that the person payment were requir as part of ani deal at the start of negoti. the ten former outsid director ar jame allen, judith areen, carl aycock, max bobbitt, clifford alexand, stile kellett, gordon macklin, john porter, lawrenc tucker and the estat of john sidgmor, who di last year. it ha not yet been determin how much each director will have to pai. "none of the 10 former director wa a direct particip in the account machin of the worldcom fraud," said the wall street journal (wsj).

two other outsid former director, bert robert and francesco galesi, remain defend in the lawsuit, said the newspap. accord to the wsj, which cite peopl familiar to the case, the settl director ar expect to deni wrongdo and state thei ar settl the case to elimin the uncertainti and expens of further litig. the second-largest us long-distanc telecom oper file for bankruptci in 2002 when an $11bn account scandal wa unearth. the compani emerg from chapter 11 protect last year and chang it name to mci inc. former worldcom chief execut bernard ebber is to face trial thi month on crimin charg that he oversaw the fraud.
