hous price rebound sai halifax

uk hous price increas by 1.1% in decemb, the first monthli rise sinc septemb, the halifax ha said.

the uk's biggest mortgag lender said price rose 15.1% over the whole of 2004, but by onli 2.8% in the second half of the year. the averag price of a hous in the uk now stand at £162,086, halifax said. the survei seem to fly in the face of recent evid that the uk hous market ha been slow substanti in respons to interest rate rise.

last week, the nationwid said that hous price fell 0.2% in decemb, with annual inflat run at a three year low.

on tuesdai, figur from the bank of england show that the number of mortgag approv in the uk ha fallen to the lowest level for nearli a decad. new loan in novemb fell to 77,000, from 85,000 in octob, the lowest rate sinc septemb 1995, the bank of england said. growth in unsecur lend, such as person loan and credit card, also slow last month. capit econom, which ha in the past predict a sharp fall in uk hous price, brand halifax's find a "temporari surpris," which would be revers over the come month. "the month by month volatil of the halifax hous price data should not distract from the fact that there is a clear downward trend in hous price," a capit econom statement said.

expert believ five interest rate rise sinc novemb 2003 ar cut borrow' appetit for debt.

despit record a price rise in decemb, the halifax survei conclud that there wa "continu sign of a genuin slowdown in the hous market." martin elli, halifax chief economist, said that there wa no need to revis the bank's predict, made last month, that price would fall by 2% in 2005. "sound hous market fundament will continu to underpin the market in 2005, ensur that the market remain healthi and that hous price fall onli slightli," mr elli said. if the bank's predict of a 2% price drop come true, it will be the first annual fall in nine year.

the bank said that the recent pattern of hous price rise the fastest in the north of england continu in decemb. in the north west and yorkshir and the humber, halifax said price rose by 3% and 1.2% in the two region respect dure the month. at the other send of the scale, price in the south east and london fell by 1.6% and 0.5% respect. the biggest declin wa seen in wale where price fell by 6.2%, an area that had experienc strong hous price growth dure most of 2004. overal, halifax said price in the final quarter of 2004 were 0.1% higher than in the previou quarter. thi wa the smallest quarterli rise sinc the second quarter of 2000, the bank said. as a result, annual hous price inflat dip below 20% dure the final few month of 2004.
