mix christma for us retail

us retail post mix result for decemb - with luxuri retail fare well while mani other were forc to slash price to lift sale.

upscal depart store nordstrom said same store sale were 9.3% higher than dure the same period last year. trendi youth label also sold well, with sale jump 28% at young women's cloth retail bebe store and 32.2% at american eagl outfitt. but wal-mart onli saw it sale rise after it cut price. the compani saw a 3% rise in decemb sale, less than the 4.3% rise seen a year earlier.

custom at the world's biggest retail ar gener seen to be the most vulner to america's econom woe.

comment claim mani have cut back on spend amid uncertainti over job secur, while low and middl-incom american have rein in spend in the face of higher gasolin price. analyst said wal-mart face a "stand-off" with shopper, step up it discount as the festiv season wore on, as consum wait longer to get the best bargain. howev, expert ad that if price had not been cut across the sector, christma sale - which account for nearli 23% of annual retail sale - would have been far wors. "so far, we ar fare better than expect, but the result ar still split," ken perkin, an analyst at research firm retailmetr llc, told associ press. "store that have been struggl over the last coupl of month appear to be continu that trend. and for store that have been do well over the last sever month, decemb wa a good month." overal, decemb sale ar forecast to rise by 4.5% to $220bn - less than the 5.1% increas seen a year earlier.

on discount retail to fare well in decemb wa costco wholesal, which continu a recent run of upbeat result with a better-than-expect 8% jump in same store sale. howev, the loser were mani and vari. home furnish store pier 1 import saw it same store sale sink by a larger-than-forecast 8.8% as it battl fierc competit. lead electron chain best bui, meanwhil, miss it sale target of a 3-5% rise in sale, turn in a 2.5% increas over the christma period. accessori vendor clair's store also suffer as an expect last minut shop rush never materialis, leav it same store sale 5% higher, compar to a 6% rise last year. jewel zale also felt littl christma cheer with decemb sale down 0.7% on the same month last year. "thi wa not a good period for retail or shopper. we saw a dearth of excit, new item," kurt barnard, presid of industri forecast retail consult group, said. howev, on beneficiari of the desert of the high street is expect to be onlin store. accord to a survei by goldman sach & co, harri interact and neilsen/net rate sale surg 25% over the holidai season to $23.2bn.
