uk bank seal south korean deal

uk-base bank standard charter said it would spend $3.3bn (£1.8bn) to bui on of south korea's main retail bank.

standard charter said acquir korea first bank (kfb) fulfil a strateg object of build a bigger presenc in asia's third largest economi. it share fell nearli 3% in london as the bank rais fund for the deal by sell new stock worth £1bn ($1.8bn), equal to 10% of it share capit. standard charter expect about 16% of futur group revenu to come from kfb.

the south korean bank will also make up 22% of the group's total asset. the move, a year after citigroup beat standard charter to bui koram bank, would be the south korean financi sector's biggest foreign takeov. thi time around, standard charter is thought to have beaten hsbc to the deal. kfb is south korea's seventh largest bank, with 3 million retail custom, 6% of the countri's bank market and an extens branch network.

the countri's bank market is three time the size of hong kong's with annual revenu of $44bn. standard charter ha it headquart in london but doe two third of it busi in asia, and much of the rest in africa. "we're comfort with the price paid...the kei here ha been speed and decis in make sure that we won," said standard charter chief execut mervyn davi at a london press confer. standard charter said kfb wa a "well-manag, conserv run bank with a highli skill workforc" and repres a "signific acquisit in a growth market". in london, standard charter's sale of 118 million new share to institut investor push it share price down, and contribut to the ftse 100's 0.3% declin. standard charter's share were 28 penc lower at 925p by middai. some analyst also queri whether standard charter had overpaid for kfb. the deal, which requir regulatori approv, is expect to be complet by april 2005 and to be earn accret in 2006, standard charter said.

rival bank giant hsbc, which is base in london and hong kong, wa also in the run. standard charter is believ to have gain the initi by put togeth a bid dure the christma break. "thei were abl to move so quickli it caught hsbc by surpris," the financi time newspap quot an insid in the talk as sai. hsbc will now have to wait for the next south korean bank in line to be sold off - thought like to be korea exchang bank, also current in the hand of a us group. standard charter said it wa bui 100% of kfb, an agreement that would bring an end to the bank's complex dual ownership. the south korean govern own 51.4% of kfb, while the remain sharehold, and oper control, ar in the hand of us privat equiti group newbridg capit. newbridg bought it stake dure the govern's nationalis of sever bank in the wake of the 1997 asia-wide currenc crisi which crippl south korea's financi institut.

south korea's economi is expect to grow by 4.5% thi year. although often thought of an export-driven economi, south korea's servic sector ha overtaken manufactur in the last decad or so. servic now make up roughli 40% of the economi, and consum spend and retail bank have becom increasingli import. in the aftermath of the asian financi crisi, the govern encourag the growth of consum credit. bad loan problem follow; lg card, the countri's biggest credit card provid, ha been struggl to avoid bankruptci for month, for instanc. but analyst believ south korea's financi servic industri is still in it infanc, offer plenti of scope for new product. standard charter see "the opportun to creat valu by the introduct of more sophist bank product". sinc 1999, kfb ha been restructur from a wholesal bank into a retail bank focus on mortgag lend, which make up 45% of it loan.
