ec call truce in deficit battl

the european commiss (ec) ha call a truce in it battl with franc and germani over breach deficit limit.

the move came after franc and germani vow to run their budget deficit below the eu cap in 2005 - for the first time in four year. but, the ec did warn the two were under close scrutini and it would act if their fiscal situat deterior. under eu rule, member countri must keep their deficit below 3%. franc and germani will breach that thi year. it will be the third year in a row that the two countri have broken the european union's stabil and growth pact rule.

the eurozon's two biggest economi left the pact in tatter in novemb 2003 when thei persuad fellow eu member to put the threat of penalti for deficit breach on hold.

the commiss then took the pair to the european court of human justic - which rule eu countri could not put the pact "in abey", and confirm the ec's right to launch "excess debt procedur". after announc it decis to eras franc and germani from it list of deficit rule breaker, the eu said that the time lag creat by the rule meant that 2005 should be the target year for the pair to bring their budget's below 3%. "the commiss conclud that the two countri appear to be on track to correct their excess deficit by 2005," it said in a statement. the eu expect the german deficit to fall to fall to 2.9% of gdp next year from 3.9% thi year, while franc's is forecast to drop to 3% from an expect 3.7% thi year. the forecast ar base on ec predict of gdp growth of 1.5% in germani next year and 2.2% in franc.

berlin welcom the decis, with financ minist han eichel sai it show that the ec recognis germani's fiscal polici wa "on the right track even amid veri difficult econom condit". howev pari wa more subdu, with financ minist herv gaymard tell parliament: "we must continu along thi path of save monei." howev, the move still had it critic, with the european peopl's parti (epp) attack the ec for back down from punit action. "the commiss is buckl under the pressur from germani and franc, " epp spokesman alexand radwan said. "the scari fact is that budget sinner, despit have repeatedli exceed the 3% deficit limit, do not have to fear ani sanction." despit the commiss deliv it decis on the two biggest eurozon economi, it refus to comment on similar action against greec which ha also broken the 3% deficit ceil. monetari affair commission joaquin almunia said that it wa a matter for next week.
