lse 'set date for takeov deal'

the london stock exchang (lse) is plan to announc a prefer takeov by the end of the month, newspap report claim.

the sundai telegraph said the lse's plan wa further evid it want to retain tight control over it destini. both deutsch boers and rival euronext held talk with the london market last week over a possibl offer. a £1.3bn offer from deutsch boers ha alreadi been reject, while euronext ha said it will make an all cash bid. specul suggest that pari-base euronext ha the facil in place to make a bid of £1.4bn, while it german rival mai up it bid to the £1.5bn mark. neither ha yet tabl a formal bid, but the lse is expect to hold further talk with the two parti later thi week. howev, the sundai telegraph report ad that there ar sign that deutsch boers chief execut werner seifert is becom increasingli impati with the lse's manag bid process.

despit insist he want to agre a recommend deal with the lse's board, the newspap suggest he mai pull out of the process and put an offer directli to sharehold instead. the newspap also claim mr seifert wa becom "increasingli frustrat" with the pace of negoti sinc deutsch boers's £1.3bn offer wa reject in mid-decemb, in particular the lse's decis to suspend talk over the christma period. meanwhil, the german exchang's offer ha come under fire recent. union for deutsch boers staff in frankfurt have reportedli express fear that up to 300 job would be move to london if the takeov is success. other claim it will weaken the citi's statu as europ's financi centr, while german politician ar also said to be angri over the market oper's promis to move it headquart to london if a bid is success. a further stumbl block is deutsch boers's control over it clearstream unit, the clear hous that process secur transact. lse sharehold fear it would creat a monopoli situat, weaken the posit of sharehold when negoti lower transact fee for share deal. lse and euronext do not have control over their clear and settlement oper, a situat which critic sai is more transpar and competit.
