minist hit out at yuko sale

russia's renationalis of it energi industri need to be revers, a senior govern figur ha warn.

economi minist german gref told the kommers newspap that direct state involv in oil wa "unjustifi". hi comment follow the sale of much of oil giant yuko to cover back tax - a deal which effect took most of the firm's asset into public ownership. on 28 decemb, anoth senior econom advis call the sale "the swindl of the centuri". yuganskneftegaz, the unit which produc 60% of yuko' output, had been seiz and sold in decemb for less than $10bn to a previous unknown firm call baikal.

baikal promptli pass into the hand of state-control firm rosneft, itself shortli to merg with state ga giant gazprom. "we us to see street hustler do thi kind of thing," andrei illarionov - then econom advis to presid vladimir putin - told a press confer. "now offici ar do it." within dai, he wa strip of most of hi respons.

mr gref, a well-known oppon of nationalis in competit part of the market, wa keen to distanc himself from mr iliaronov's comment. the privatis of compani such as yuko in the 1990s had been badli handl, he said. but he stress that the govern need to get out of oil. "i think that rosneft and yuganskneftegaz, should it becom a state-own compani, must be privat," he said.

"todai our govern is ineffect and state compani, as a result, ar for the overwhelm part ineffect as well." and he warn that us back tax to deal with firm like yuko - a techniqu now be appli by the kremlin to sever other firm - wa a mistak. "if we follow that logic, we should nationalis all busi," he said. mani larg russian compani, particularli in the energi sector, us complex web of offshor compani to avoid tax.

mr gref also pour cold water on presid putin's promis of doubl econom growth within a decad. the assault on yuko' asset ha been wide blame for a slowdown in econom growth in recent month. "the task is not simpli to doubl gdp; instead it is to us gdp to qualit improv peopl's live," mr gref told kommers. "we don't need simpli to increas gdp, but to improv it structur." instead of focus on headlin growth figur, russia need to focu on better institut, such as a more effici - and less corrupt - court system.
