karachi stock hit histor high

the karachi stock exchang (kse) ha record it largest singl dai gain, surg 3.5% to a new high.

the index rose 225.79 point in four hour of furiou trade, with mani investor optimist that polit stabil could bring an econom boom. the kse index close at 6709.93 - an overal gain of nearli 400 point in the first two trade dai of the week. energi and telecommun stock perform particularli well, record an 8%-10% rise sinc mondai morn.

in 2002, the kse wa the world's best perform stock market, with the index rise 112%.

pakistani investor ar expect the kse to repeat, if not improv on, it 2002 perform. jubil investor danc on the street as the market close for the dai on tuesdai, confid that the boom will continu at least until the public holidai on 22 januari. other, howev, who had stai out fear an immin collaps becaus of price overh, continu to warn that the "bubbl mai burst ani time". "that's rubbish," kse chairman yaseen lakhani told the bbc new websit. "whenev the market reflect pakistan's true econom realiti, it is describ as a bubbl." mr lakhani feel that the market ha risen on the basi of solid econom growth and it current level rest on sound foundat.

market analyst ar inclin to agre with mr lakhani, argu that there ar a number of major factor behind the kse's perform. analyst argu that a steadi improv in pakistan's credit rate by intern credit rate agenc ha final begun to regist in the market. standard & poor's upgrad pakistan a few week ago. there ar indic of yet anoth upgrad by the end of februari.

then, sai analyst, there is corpor profit in the current fiscal year, which ha gone up by 27% from last year. "coupl with the 7% gdp growth expect by june thi year, i am least surpris at the market's perform," sai mr lakhani. on lead karachi broker said the real reason mai be polit. "if you file a $1.3 trillion case against saudi monei after 9/11, arab monei will not go to the us ani more." a lot of arab monei, he sai, ha alreadi gone to malaysia and indonesia. pakistani ar now hope that energi and telecom, two of the strongest sector in pakistan, draw some of the arab monei to the kse.

local, too, sai analyst, recent polit develop have work to the market's advantag.

an anti-musharraf campaign threaten by the mma, a countrywid allianc of religi parti, ha fizzl out. the releas of asif zardari, former prime minist benazir bhutto's husband, ha eas polit tension between the militari-back govern and the opposit pakistan peopl's parti. most importantli, sai analyst, the failur of talk between india and pakistan on the baglihar dam in indian-administ kashmir ha not automat led to heighten tension. thi, thei sai, indic that neither countri is interest in rais the temperatur at thi stage, irrespect of the state of their disagr. the market is abuzz with specul that substanti invest mai now start to flow in from the us, a countri seen local as deepli interest in defus tension between the south asian neighbour. "you can call it a peac dividend," smile on broker. "let us see how long on can reap it benefit."
