us prepar for hybrid onslaught

sale of hybrid car in the us ar set to doubl in 2005, research suggest.

research group jd power estim sale will hit 200,000 in 2005, despit higher price and custom sceptic. carmak ar start to build hybrid sport util vehicl (suv), the four-wheel-drive vehicl which now domin the us car market. hybrid cut both petrol consumpt and emiss by combin a petrol engin with an electr motor constantli kept charg by extra engin power. sever jurisdict, notabl the state of california, mandat low emiss for new car. equal, the rise in oil price over the past year ha spark hope that consum mai be tempt by potenti save of a few hundr dollar a year on fuel.

at the detroit motor show, a rang of manufactur ar promin displai their hybrid credenti. toyota ha led the market to date with the priu, popularis by a number of celebr keen to burnish their "green" credenti. in april it will launch a hybrid version of it highland suv, with an suv from it luxuri lexu marqu due later in the year.

honda ha three hybrid on the market, and between them the two japanes carmak sold more than 80,000 unit last year. ford, which ha sold 4,000 of it first hybrid sinc it launch in august, is bring a hybrid suv - the marin - to market a year ahead of schedul, with plan for three more model by 2008. gm ha a hybrid pickup on the market and is show two concept suv in detroit. even sport car maker porsch mai join the race, although it insist it is still consid whether to hybridis it cayenn suv.

other remain more sceptic. nissan ha bought toyota's hybrid technolog, but plan to bring out it first model onli in 2006. "we want to make sure we ar not concentr on on technolog," nissan chief execut carlo ghosn said. "we will not be surpris by ani acceler or deceler in the hybrid market." volkswagen, meanwhil, sai it will focu on clean-burn diesel engin instead. and some watcher point out that the price tag on a hybrid - upward of $3,000 abov that of an equival normal-engin car, and suspicion of the technolog - mai still cool it attract. "the averag consum aren't will to pai that premium for a car thei won't drive more than six year," said anthoni pratt from jd power.
