asia quak increas poverti risk

nearli two million peopl across asia could be thrown into poverti becaus of the indian ocean tsunami, the asian develop bank (adb) ha said.

in it first overview of the disast, the adb said the impact on econom growth would be slight becaus major citi and factori escap damag. but the blow to mani low-incom peopl could be "enorm". the pari club of rich creditor nation on wednesdai offer to freez debt ow by tsunami-hit countri.

the move wa aim at help south asian govern find budget to rebuild devast coastal area, though so far onli sri lanka, indonesia and the seychel have indic that thei will take it up.

other countri believ their economi ar strong enough to cope or wish to avoid be view as credit risk. "poverti is potenti the most import impact of thi natur disast," said adb chief economist ifzal ali. donor nation have promis to give $717m (£379m) in disast relief over the next six month, accord to the unit nation.

mr ali ad hi voic to those warn that aid pledg must be promptli deliv, sai the number of peopl at risk of poverti hing on "concern over sanit and health condit, and other basic need" be "properli and quickli address".

there ar 1.9 billion peopl in asia live on less than $2 a dai. the adb fear that 1 million indonesian could join them, while in india just over half a million peopl - 645,000 - ar at risk of fall into poverti. a quarter of a million sri lankan and 23,500 peopl in the maldiv ar also face poverti. in the maldiv, where 43% of the popul alreadi live on less than $2 a dai, thi could rise to half. sri lanka and the maldiv ar the two countri the adb fear ar most at risk of suffer last econom damag from the tsunami. sri lanka's govern ha estim reconstruct cost at nearli $3bn. a govern task forc held meet to discuss an emerg rebuild plan with the adb, world bank and japanes aid agenc on wednesdai, and promis to publish the plan within 10 dai.

indonesia, malaysia, thailand and india have enjoi strong econom growth in recent year, which should cushion them against reconstruct cost. although indonesia's northern provinc of aceh suffer the worst death toll, the region's oil and natur ga product facil "have surviv intact", the report said. howev, it remain too soon to ass the damag to poor peopl's livelihood in aceh becaus it would depend on how much farm land had been flood by seawat. "thi is a profoundli tragic event for the region and for the million who ar suffer. but the economi of the affect countri except sri lanka and the maldiv should emerg with minim damag," the adb report said. some busi mai even gain from the reconstruct effort, therebi creat job. at a meet in thailand, abd presid thadao chino said he wa confid of the countri's "own capabl to restor normalci to the affect area and meet the rehabilit requir". thailand ha said it doe not wish to opt for a debt repay freez, while india ha also reject intern aid, sai it can cope on it own resourc. debt repay holidai carri the risk of credit rate downgrad, make it more expens to borrow monei in futur. indonesia, howev, is press for greater help with it debt than the current freez would bring. it is on of the world's most indebt countri.
