foster bui stake in winemak

australian brewer foster ha bought a larg stake in australian winemak southcorp, spark rumour of a possibl takeov.

foster bought 18.8% of southcorp, the global winemak behind the penfold, lindeman and rosemount brand, for 4.17 australian dollar per share. a bid at that price would valu the compani at a$3.1bn ($2.4bn; £1.25bn ). foster said it wa current in discuss "which mai lead to a major corpor announc".

in a separ statement, southcorp confirm the brewer had ask for talk. both firm ask the sydnei stock market to suspend trade in their share until mondai. southcorp's share were suspend at a$4.25.

foster bought the 18.8% stake from relin invest, the famili invest firm for the oatlei, who found the rosemount estat label and sold it to southcorp in 2001. robert oatlei and hi son sandi oatlei have both resign from southcorp's board follow the share deal. southcorp emploi 2,700 peopl and is the largest singl investor in rural australia, accord to it websit. the prospect of foster launch a major acquisit startl investor, as the brewer said last summer that it wa not look to expand through a big bui in the near futur. it ha cash avail, after get a$846m from sell properti busi lensworth, but it ha been wide expect to return cash to sharehold.

"peopl will scratch their head over thi on. foster ha done a back-flip", said shawn burn, a fund manger at deutsch asset manag. southcorp's share have risen in recent month on specul that it could becom a takeov target. it spent two year in the red, return to profit in 2004. consolid in the wine industri is be driven by constel, the world's biggest winemak. it seiz the top spot when it bought australian firm brl hardi for just over $1bn in 2003. sinc then, it ha paid $1bn for us wine maker robert mondavi, bought last month. foster' main wine busi is bering blass wine estat. it best known brand is foster lager, though it make a clutch of beer brand, and spirit. analyst were divid on thursdai about whether foster wa more like to go for a takeov or mere want to take a big enough chunk of southcorp to prevent it fall to a rival. "current, i think the strateg posit is more sensibl rather than an outright takeov," said on analyst quot by the agenc franc press new agenc. howev, matt william, a fund manag at perpetu truste said take the stake "is definit a precursor to a takeov".
