china ban new tobacco factori

the world's biggest tobacco consum, china, ha said it will not allow ani new tobacco factori to be built.

china alreadi ha more than enough cigarett-make capac, accord to a spokesman for the tobacco industri regul quot in china daili. the ban threaten to reignit tension between the regul and british american tobacco, which plan to becom china's first foreign cigarett maker. a spokeswoman for bat declin to comment on the report.

"china won't allow ani new tobacco factori to be built, includ joint ventur", said xing wangli, a spokesman for the state tobacco administr monopoli quot in china daili. he also said that the state would retain it monopoli on cigarett distribut. china ha 350 million smoker who consum 1.7 trillion cigarett a year. smoke is fashion in china, where it is seen as an essenti - and manli - sociabl touch for some job, such as salesmen. more young, urban woman ar take up smoke too. in juli 2004, bat announc it had won approv for to build a $1.5bn (£800m) joint ventur factori in china which would make it the first foreign cigarett maker to manufactur there.

the state tobacco monopoli administr said a week later that it had not approv the deal, lead to an embarrass public row. bat told the bbc at that time that it had not negoti with the stmc, and secur approv from "the highest level of govern". sinc then, the row ha flare occasion, most recent at a forum in novemb. bat consist declin to comment. "xing's statement come as especi bad new for british american tobacco", the china daili newspap said of the latest develop. the bat spokeswoman said: "there is noth for us to add...sinc our announc in juli last year. the central govern of china is the author that approv our strateg invest." the decis to ban further tobacco factori doe not appli to deal made befor 2005, accord to the french new agenc afp. the joint ventur factori wa expect to take till 2006 to build. the bat spokeswoman would not comment on it progress. howev, if the stma continu to take a tough stanc, expans opportun could be limit.

china's tobacco market is increasingli valuabl as anti-smoke campaign target public smoke in the west. china daili said the market wa current enjoi steadi growth, make more than 210bn yuan ($25.4bn) in pre-tax profit last year, almost doubl the figur in 2000. the paper made no mention of health concern. the stma is try to restructur the domest tobacco industri, close some factori, though such move can be unpopular with local govern.
