us trade deficit widen sharpli

the gap between us export and import ha widen to more than $60bn (£31.7bn), an all-time record.

figur from the commerc depart for novemb show export down 2.3% to $95.6bn, while import grew 1.3% to $155.8bn on rise consum demand. part of the expand deficit came from high price for oil import. but the number suggest the slide dollar - which make export less expens - ha had littl impact, and could indic slow econom growth.

the trade deficit - far bigger than the $54bn wide expect on wall street - prompt a rapid respons from the currenc market.

by 1650 gmt, the dollar wa trade against the euro at $1.3280, almost a cent and a half weaker than befor the announc. against the pound, the dollar wa down about 0.7% at $1,8923. "the dollar's fall ha been sudden, violent and appropri given thi number," said brian taylor of well fargo in minneapoli. "recent exchang rate movement certainli haven't had ani impact yet." treasuri secretari john snow put a brave face on the new, sai it wa a sign of strong econom expans. "the economi is grow at such a fast rate that it is gener lot of dispos incom... some of which is us to bui good from our trade partner."

although the white hous offici still back the us's tradit "strong dollar" polici, it ha tacitli indic that it would be happi if the slide continu. the dollar ha fallen by 50% against the euro - as well as by 30% against the yen - in the past three year. the main catalyst, most economist accept, is the larg budget deficit on the on hand, and the current account deficit - the differ between the flow of monei in and out of the us - on the other. the trade deficit is a larg part of the latter. in novemb, the fall in export wa larg due to a declin in sale of industri suppli and materi such as chemic, as well as of car, consum good and food. on small bright spot for us polici-maker wa a slight declin in the deficit with china, often blame for job loss and other econom woe. although china's overal trade surplu is expand, accord to chines govern figur, the commerc depart reveal the us's deficit with china wa $19.6bn in novemb, down from $19.7bn the month befor. but the deficit with japan wa at it worst in more than four year.
