us ahold supplier face charg

us prosecutor have charg nine food supplier with help dutch retail ahold inflat earn by more than $800m (£428m).

the charg have been brought against individu as well as compani, alleg thei creat fals account. ahold hit the headlin in februari 2003 after it emerg that there were account irregular at it us subsidiari foodservic. three former ahold top execut last year agre to settl fraud charg.

ahold ha admit that it fraudul inflat promot allow at foodservic, improperli consolid joint ventur and also commit other account error and irregular.

the nine now charg, who work as supplier to ahold, ar accus of sign fals document relat to the amount of monei thei paid the retail for promot their product in it store. food compani pai supermarket and retail for prime shelf space. the supplier in question ar said to have inflat the amount of monei thei paid, provid auditor with sign letter that allow ahold to inflat it earn. us attornei david kellei said he expect the nine vendor will plead guilti to the charg. he ad that there mai be more court action in the futur. "i don't want to leav you with the impress that these were the onli on involv," he said. among those face charg ar john nettl, a former employe of gener mill; mark bailin of rymer intern seafood; tim dali of michael food and kenneth bowman, who work as an independ contractor for total food.

other includ michael hannigan of sugar food; peter marion of maritim seafood processor and first choic food; gordon redgat of commod manag and privat label distribut; bruce robinson of basic american food and michael roger, formerli of tyson food. pasqual d'amuro of the fbi call the nine vendor the kei ingredi in "the process of cook the book" at ahold. at the time of the scandal, ahold wa seen by mani as europ's enron. ahold share tumbl on the new and mani market observ predict that the fall out could damag investor confid across europ. it wa less sever than mani had envisag, howev, and sinc then ahold ha work hard at rebuild it reput and investor confid. ahold is the world's fourth-largest supermarket chain. it other us busi includ stop & shop, and giant food.
