wal-mart fight back at accus

two big us name have launch advertis campaign to "set the record straight" about their product and corpor behaviour.

the world's biggest retail wal-mart took out more than 100 full page advert in nation newspap. the group is try to see off critic over it pai deal, benefit packag and promot strategi. meanwhil, drug group eli lilli is plan a campaign against "fals" claim about it product prozac. wal-mart kick off the battl with advert in newspap like the wall street journal, us an open letter from compani presid lee scott sai it wa time for the public to hear the "unfilt truth".

"there ar lot of 'urban legend' go around these dai about wal-mart, but fact ar fact. wal-mart is good for consum, good for commun and good for the us economi," mr scott said in a separ statement.

it advert - and a new websit - outlin the group's plan to creat more than 10,000 us job in 2005. wal-mart's averag pai is almost twice the nation minimum wage of $5.15 (£3.90) an hour, while employe ar offer health and life insur, compani stock and a retir plan, the advert sai. union accus wal-mart of pai staff less than it rival do, with fewer benefit. in california, the compani is fight opposit to new store amid alleg it forc local competitor out of busi. lawmak in the state ar also examin alleg that the firm burden the state with an unfair proport of employe health care cost. "i think thei ar go to have a tough time suddenli overcom the percept of some peopl," said larri bevington, chairman of save our commun - a group fight to prevent wal-mart open a store in rosemead, california. wal-mart is also fight two lawsuit - on accus it of discrimin against women and anoth alleg it discrimin against black employe.

meanwhil eli lilli is launch a seri of advert in a dozen major newspap, to present what is sai ar the true fact about it anti-depress drug prozac.

the move is in respons to a british medic journal articl that claim "miss" lilli document link prozac to suicid and violent behaviour. in the avert, entitl an open letter from chief execut sidnei taurel, the compani sai the articl continu to "needlessli spread fear among patient who take prozac". "it wa simpli wrong to suggest that inform on prozac wa miss, or that import research data on the benefit and possibl side effect of the drug were not avail to doctor and regul," the letter ad. eli lilli's chief medic offic alan breier said that the articl wa "fals and mislead" as the document it refer to were actual creat by offici at the us food and drug administr (fda) and present to an fda meet in 1991. later, fda medic advisor agre the claim were base on faulti data and there wa no increas risk of suicid.
