us retail sale surg in decemb

us retail sale end the year on a high note with solid gain in decemb, boost by strong car sale.

season adjust sale rose 1.2% in the month, compar to 0.1% a month earlier, boost by a surg in shop just befor and after christma. sale climb 8% for the year, the best perform sinc an 8.5% rise in 1999, the commerc depart ad. the gain were led by a 4.3% jump in auto sale as dealer us enhanc offer to get car out of showroom. dealer were forc to cut price in decemb to maintain sale growth in a tough quarter when the usual end-of-year holidai sale boom wa slow to get start.

the increas in sale dure decemb push total spend for the month to $349.4bn (£265.9bn). sale for the year also broke through the $4 trillion mark for the first time - with annual sale come in at $4.06 trillion howev, if automot ar exclud from decemb's data, retail sale rose just 0.3% on the month. home furnish and furnitur store also perform well, rise 2.2%. but as well as hit the shop, more us consum were go onlin or us mail order for their purchas - with non-store retail see sale rise by 1.9%. howev, analyst said that the strong figur were unlik to put the feder reserv bank off it current polici of measur interest rate rise. "consum for now remain will to spend freeli, sustain the us expans. given that attitud, the fed remain like to continu boost the fed fund rate at upcom meet," ub economist mauri harri told reuter.

retail sale ar seen as a major part of consum spend - which in turn make up two-third of econom output in the us. consum spend ha been pick up in recent year after slump dure 2001 and 2002 as the countri battl to recov from it first recess of the decad and the world trade centr attack. dure that time, sale grew a lacklustr 2.9% in 2001 and 2.5% a year later. look ahead, analyst now expect improv in job growth to feed through to the high street with consum spend remain strong. the belief come despit the latest labor depart report show a surpris rise in unemploy. the number of american file initi jobless claim jump to 367,000, the highest rate sinc septemb. howev, long-term claim slip to their lowest level sinc 2001.
