lse doubt boost bidder' share

share in deutsch boers have risen more than 3% after a sharehold fund voic opposit to the firm's plan takeov of the london stock exchang.

tci, which claim to repres owner of 5% of deutsch boers's (db) share, ha complain that the £1.35bn ($2.5bn) offer for the lse is too high. opposit from tci ha fuell specul that the propos takeov could fail. rival exchang oper euronext ha also said it mai bid for the lse. euronext oper the pari, amsterdam, brussel and lisbon bours, while deutsch boers run the frankfurt exchang.

bbc new spoke to a number of analyst on mondai morn about sharehold worri over deutsch boers's bid for lse. although none were prepar to speak on the record, most thought it wa unlik that tci's opposit would halt the deal

"obvious we'll have to wait and see, but i don't think it will make much differ. deutsch boers appear veri commit," said on london-base broker. he forecast the takeov bid would succe and wa more concern to see improv in the daili run of the lse. in voic it opposit to the plan takeov, tci said it would prefer to see deutsch boers return $500m (£350m) to sharehold. the deutsch boers wa prepar to pai for the lse "exce the potenti benefit of thi acquisit", said tci.

anoth deutsch boers sharehold on mondai also appear to back tci's call. anoth investor in deutsch boers ha support the view that a payout to sharehold would be prefer to deutsch boers overpai for the lse, reuter new agenc report. "we prefer a sensibl entrepreneuri solut at a price that is not too high," said rolf dress, a spokesman for union invest. "if that cannot be achiev, then we would wish for a distribut of liquid asset to sharehold." the financi time also report a third deutsch boers sharehold as oppos to the deal. it quot a spokesman for us-base hedg fund atticu capit complain that the plan takeov appear to be motiv by "empir-build" rather than the best interest of sharehold.

tci ha call for deutsch boers to hold an emerg gener meet to discuss the bid for lse. yet under german busi law, db doe not have to gain sharehold approv befor make a signific acquisit. deutsch boers said tci's opposit would not chang it bid approach. "deutsch boers is convinc that it contempl cash acquisit of the london stock exchang is in the best interest of it sharehold and the compani," it said. db's share were up 3.4% to 45.25 euro by 1030 gmt, the highest gainer in frankfurt.
