qanta consid offshor option

australian airlin qanta could transfer as mani as 7,000 job out of it home countri as it seek to save cost, accord to newspap report.

chief execut geoff dixon wa quot by the australian newspap as sai the carrier could no longer afford to remain "all-australian". union criticis the possibl move - which mai affect cabin and mainten staff - sai qanta wa profit. more than 90% of the airlin's staff ar base in australia.

qanta confirm it wa look at whether it might recruit and sourc product oversea - potenti through joint ventur - but said it would continu to creat job in australia.

despit make a record australian dollar 648m ($492m) profit last year, qanta ha argu that it need to make consider save if it is to remain competit. "we're go to have to get the lowest cost structur we can and that willmean sourc thing more and more from oversea," the newspap quot qanta chief execut geoff dixon as sai. earli thi year, qanta increas the number of flight attend base in london from 370 to 870. if qanta were to follow the lead of other airlin move staff 'offshor' 7,000 job could shift oversea, the newspap report. in a statement, qanta said it wa look to build it oper oversea. howev, it stress thi would not result in larg scale redund in it home market, where most of it 35,000 staff ar emploi. "we ar total commit to continu to grow job in australia," mr dixon said. "we ar, howev, oper in a global market and there is no room for complac simpli becaus we ar current profit and success."

union react angrili to the report disclosur, argu that qanta wa profit and did not need to take such action. "we could understand if qanta wa a struggl airlin about to go under," michael mijatov, intern divis secretari of the flight attend associ, told agenc franc press. "qanta announc a record profit last year and is on cours thi year for an even greater profit so it is total unnecessari." in an effort to meet the challeng pose by low cost carrier, qanta sought a tie-up with air new zealand last year howev, the deal wa thrown out by the new zealand high court on competit ground.
