germani call for eu reform

german chancellor gerhard schroeder ha call for radic reform of the eu's stabil pact to grant countri more flexibl over their budget deficit.

mr schroeder said exist fiscal rule should be loosen to allow countri to run deficit abov the current 3% limit if thei met certain criteria. write in the financi time, mr schroeder also said head of govern should have a greater sai in reform. chang to the pact ar due to be agre at an econom summit in march.

the current eu rule limit the size of a eurozon countri's deficit to 3% of gdp. countri which exce the threshold ar liabl to heavi fine by the european commiss, although sever countri, includ germani, have breach the rule consist sinc 2002 without face punish. the european commiss acknowledg last month that it would not impos sanction on countri who break the rule.

mr schroeder - a staunch support of the pact when it wa set up in the 1990s - said exempt were now need to take into account the cost of domest reform programm and chang econom condit. "the stabil pact will work better if intervent by european institut in the budgetari sovereignti of nation parliament is onli permit under veri limit condit," he wrote. "onli if their compet ar respect will the member state be will to align their polici more consist with the econom goal of the eu."

deficit should be allow to rise abov 3%, mr schroeder argu, if countri meet sever "mandatori criteria". these includ govern which ar adopt costli structur reform, countri which ar suffer econom stagnat and nation which ar shoulder "special econom burden". the propos chang would make it harder for the european commiss to launch infring action against ani state which breach the pact's rule. mr schroeder's intervent come ahead of a meet of the 12 eurozon financ minist on mondai to discuss the pact. the issu will also be discuss at tuesdai's ecofin meet of the financ minist of all 25 eu member. mr schroeder also call for head of govern to plai a larger role in shape reform to the pact. a number of eu financ minist ar believ to favour onli limit chang to the eurozon's rule.
