tsunami slow sri lanka's growth

sri lanka's presid ha launch a reconstruct drive worth $3.5bn (£1.8bn) by appeal for peac and nation uniti.

presid kumaratunga said it wa now import to find a peac solut to year of intern conflict. meanwhil, the intern monetari fund (imf) said damag from the tsunami would cut on percentag point from sri lanka's econom growth thi year. it estim the wave left physic damag equal to 6.5% of the economi.

separ, the intern labour organis (ilo) said that at least on million peopl have lost their livelihood in sri lanka and indonesia alon. it call for action to creat job. presid kumaratunga attend a ceremoni in the southern town of hambantota. she wa join by govern and opposit politician, togeth with buddhist, hindu, muslim and christian clergi.

prime minist mahinda rajapaks laid the foundat stone on a new hous project intend to provid 6,000 home for survivor of the tsunami. mr kumaratunga call for the tragedi to be "the start of a new begin to rebuild our nation". "we ar a countri bless with so mani natur resourc and we have not made us of them fulli. instead we have been squabbl, fight," she ad. norwai's peac negoti erik solheim is due to arriv on wednesdai to try to reviv peac talk in the decad-long conflict between govern forc and the tamil tiger, who want a separ state in the north east of the countri. reconstruct effort in eastern sri lanka have been hamper by tension between the two side.

the imf said that the sri lankan author' initi estim have put the physic damag at $1.3 to $1.5bn, but ad that the implic for the economi were much wider than thi. "the broader macroeconom impact will clearli be substanti but the detail ar difficult to assess at thi earli stage," the imf said. growth, inflat, the balanc of payment and foreign exchang reserv ar all expect to show the effect of lost busi and reconstruct cost. "the fish industri ha been devast, agricultur product mai be affect and tourism will suffer, especi in the short term," the report said. the ilo estim that 400,000 sri lankan have lost their job, mostli in these three industri. earn from tourism thi year ar expect to be 15% lower than last year. econom growth thi year is expect to be 4%, which is about 1% less than previous forecast. inflat could climb to 14% compar to a previou estim of 12%. although major export have not suffer, the imf expect the reconstruct effort will requir higher import which could damag the balanc of payment. foreign exchang reserv mai becom strain as "sri lanka will be hard press to keep intern reserv at the pre-tsunami level" which total more than two month worth of import. last week, the imf approv sri lanka's request for a freez on loan repay.
