china suspend 26 power project

china ha order a halt to construct work on 26 big power station, includ two at the three gorg dam, on environment ground.

the move is a surpris on becaus china is struggl to increas energi suppli for it boom economi. last year 24 provinc suffer black out. the state environment protect agenc said the 26 project had fail to do proper environment assess. top the list wa a controversi dam on the scenic upper yangtz river. "construct of these project ha start without approv of the assess of their environment impact... thei ar typic illeg project of construct first, approv next," said sepa vice-director pan yue, in a statement on the agenc's websit.

some of the project mai be allow to start work again with the proper permit, but other would be cancel, he said. altogeth, the agenc order 30 project halt. other project includ a petrochem plant and a port in fujian. the bulk of the list wa made up of new power plant, with some extens to exist on. the stoppag would appear to be anoth step in the central govern's battl to control project licens by local offici. howev, previou crackdown have tend to focu on project for which the govern argu there wa overcapac, such as steel and cement. the govern ha encourag construct of new electr gener capac to solv chronic energi shortag which forc mani factori onto part-time work last year. in 2004, china increas it gener capac by 12.6%, or 440,700 megawatt (mw). the biggest singl project to be halt wa the xiluodi dam project, design to produc 12,600 mw of electr. it is be built on the jinshajiang - or 'river of golden sand' as the upper reach of the yangtz ar known. second and third on the agenc's list were two power station be built at the $22bn three gorg dam project on the central yangtz - an underground 4,200 mw power plant and a 100 mw plant.

the three gorg dam ha prove controversi in china - where more than half a million peopl have been reloc to make wai for it - and abroad. it ha drawn critic from environment group and oversea human right activist. the dam of the upper yangtz ha also begun to attract critic from environmentalist in china. in april 2004, central govern offici order a halt to work on the nearbi nu river, which is part of a unit nation world heritag site, the three parallel river site which cover the yangtz, mekong and nu (also known as the salween), accord to the uk-publish china review. that move reportedli follow a protest from the thai govern about the downstream impact of the dam, and a critic documentari made by chines journalist. china's energi shortag influenc global price for oil, coal and ship last year.
