busi fail to plan for hiv

compani fail to draw up plan to cope with hiv/aid until it affect 20% of peopl in a countri, new research sai.

the find come in a report publish on thursdai by the world econom forum, harvard and the un aid agenc. "too few compani ar respond proactiv to the social and busi threat," said dr kate taylor, head of the wef's global health initi. nearli 9,000 busi leader in 104 countri were survei for busi and hiv/aid: commit and action?

dr taylor describ the level of action taken by busi as reveal by the report as "too littl, too late". the issu will be highlight to busi and world leader at the world econom forum, which meet in davo, switzerland, next week. the wef report show that despit the fact that 14,000 peopl contract hiv/aid everi dai, concern among busi ha drop by 23% in the last 12 month. most (71%) have no polici in place to address the diseas. nor could over 65% of the busi leader survei sai or estim the preval of hiv among their staff. the un programm tackl aid, unaid, point out that have a clear strategi for deal with hiv/aid wa a good invest as well as be social respons.

on compani that doe have a plan is anglo-american, the intern mine compani, which estim an hiv preval of 24% among it 130,000-strong southern african workforc.

over the last two year the compani ha implement extens voluntari counsel and test for hiv infect, coupl with anti-retrovir therapi for employe progress to aid. over 90% of the 2,200 employe who have access and remain on treatment ar well and have return to normal work. "effect action on hiv/aid is synonym with good busi manag and lead to more profit and sustain oper," said brian brink, senior vice-presid, health, at anglo-american.

"compani should encourag all worker to know their hiv statu, make it as routin as monitor blood pressur or cholesterol," he said. "provid access to treatment is a critic part of thi." across sub-saharan africa, even in countri with an hiv preval of 10-19%, onli around 7% of compani have formal hiv/aid polici in place, accord to the report. the gap is even wider in china, ethiopia, india, nigeria and russia, the so-call "next wave" countri, which ar predict to experi the highest number of new hiv/aid case worldwid by 2010. the report add "an import build block to our understand of how the busi commun is experienc the hiv/aid epidem and to whether and how it is react," said david bloom, professor of econom and demographi at the harvard school of public health.

the wef report conclud that busi need to understand their exposur to hiv/aid risk and come up with good local practic to manag them. a kei prioriti, in both high and low-preval set, said the wef is to establish a polici base on non-discrimin and confidenti.
