world leader gather to face uncertainti

more than 2,000 busi and polit leader from around the globe ar arriv in the swiss mountain resort davo for the annual world econom forum (wef). for five dai, thei will discuss issu rang from china's econom power to iraq's futur after thi sundai's elect. uk prime minist toni blair and south african presid thabo mbeki ar among the more than 20 govern leader and head of state leader attend the meet. unlik previou year, protest against the wef ar expect to be mute. anti-globalis campaign have call off a demonstr plan for the weekend.

the brazilian citi of porto alegr will host the rival world social forum, time to run in parallel with the wef's ritzier event in davo.

the organis of the brazilian gather, which bring togeth thousand of campaign against globalis, for fair trade, and mani other caus, have promis to set an altern agenda to that of the swiss summit. howev, mani of the issu discuss in porto alegr ar davo talk point as well. "global warm" featur particularli high. wef particip ar be ask to offset the carbon emiss thei caus by travel to the event. davo itself is in deep frost. the snow is pile high across the mountain villag, and at night the wind chill take temperatur down to minu 20c and less.

ultim, the forum will be domin by busi issu - from outsourc to corpor leadership - with boss of more than a fifth of the world's 500 largest compani schedul to attend.

but much of the media focu will be on the polit leader come to davo, not least becaus the agenda of thi year's forum seem to lack an overarch theme. "take respons for tough choic" is thi year's offici talk point, hint at a welter of knotti problem. on thing seem sure, though: transatlant disagr over how to deal with iran, iraq and china ar set to domin discuss. pointedli, onli on senior offici from presid bush's new administr is schedul to attend. the us govern mai still make a conciliatori gestur, just as happen a year ago when vice presid dick chenei made a surpris appear in davo.

ukrain's new presid, viktor yushchenko, is to speak, just dai after hi inaugur, an event that crown the civil protest against the rig first elect that had tri to keep him from power.

the european union's top leader, among them german chancellor gerhard schroeder and european commiss presid manuel barosso, will be here too. mr blair will formal open the proceed, although hi speech will be pre-empt by french presid jacqu chirac, who announc hi attend at the last minut and secur a slot for a "special messag" two hour befor mr blair speak. the organis also hope that the new palestinian leader, mahmoud abba, will us the opportun for talk with at least on of the three isra deputi prime minist come to the event, a list that includ shimon pere. davo fan still hark back to 1994, when talk between yassir arafat and mr pere came close to a peac deal. mr blair's appear will be keenli watch too, as polit observ in the uk claim it is a calcul snub against polit rival chancellor gordon brown, who wa suppos to lead the uk govern deleg.

microsoft founder bill gate, the world's richest man and a regular at davo, will focu on campaign for good caus, though busi interest will not be wholli absent either. have alreadi donat billion of dollar to the fight against aid and malaria, mr gate will call on world leader to support a global vaccin campaign to protect children in develop countri from easili prevent diseas. on tuesdai, mr gate pledg $750m (£400m) of hi own monei to support the caus. mr gate' compani, softwar giant microsoft, also hope to us davo to shore up it defenc against open sourc softwar like linux, which threaten microsoft's near monopoli on comput desktop. mr gate is said to be try to arrang a meet with brazil's presid lula da silva. the brazilian govern ha plan to switch all govern comput from microsoft to linux. at davo, global problem solv and network ar never far apart.
