bbc poll indic econom gloom

citizen in a major of nation survei in a bbc world servic poll believ the world economi is worsen.

most respond also said their nation economi wa get wors. but when ask about their own famili's financi outlook, a major in 14 countri said thei were posit about the futur. almost 23,000 peopl in 22 countri were question for the poll, which wa mostli conduct befor the asian tsunami disast. the poll found that a major or plural of peopl in 13 countri believ the economi wa go downhil, compar with respond in nine countri who believ it wa improv. those survei in three countri were split. in percentag term, an averag of 44% of respond in each countri said the world economi wa get wors, compar to 34% who said it wa improv. similarli, 48% were pessimist about their nation economi, while 41% were optimist. and 47% saw their famili's econom condit improv, as against 36% who said thei were get wors.

the poll of 22,953 peopl wa conduct by the intern poll firm globescan, togeth with the program on intern polici attitud (pipa) at the univers of maryland. "while the world economi ha pick up from difficult time just a few year ago, peopl seem to not have fulli absorb thi develop, though thei ar person experienc it effect," said pipa director steven kull. "peopl around the world ar sai: 'i'm ok, but the world isn't'." there mai be a percept that war, terror and religi and polit divis ar make the world a wors place, even though that ha not so far been reflect in global econom perform, sai the bbc's elizabeth blunt.

the countri where peopl were most optimist, both for the world and for their own famili, were two fast-grow develop economi, china and india, follow by indonesia. china ha seen two decad of blister econom growth, which ha led to wealth creation on a huge scale, sai the bbc's louisa lim in beij. but the result also mai reflect the untrammel confid of peopl who ar subject to endless govern propaganda about their countri's rosi econom futur, our correspond sai. south korea wa the most pessimist, while respond in itali and mexico were also quit gloomi. the bbc's david willei in rome sai on reason for that result is the changeov from the lira to the euro in 2001, which is wide view as the biggest reason why their wage and salari ar worth less than thei us to be. the philippin wa among the most upbeat countri on prospect for respond' famili, but on of the most pessimist about the world economi. pipa conduct the poll from 15 novemb 2004 to 3 januari 2005 across 22 countri in face-to-face or telephon interview. the interview took place between 15 novemb 2004 and 5 januari 2005. the margin of error is between 2.5 and 4 point, depend on the countri. in eight of the countri, the sampl wa limit to major metropolitan area.
