million go miss at china bank

two senior offici at on of china's top commerci bank have reportedli disappear after fund worth up to $120m (£64m) went miss.

the pair both work at bank of china in the northern citi of harbin, the south china morn post report. the latest scandal at bank of china will do noth to reassur foreign investor that china's big four bank ar readi for intern list. govern polici see the bank list as vital econom reform. bank of china is on of two frontrunn in the race to list oversea. the other is china construct bank. both ar expect to list abroad dure 2005.

thei share a $45bn state bailout in 2003, to help clean up their balanc sheet in prepar for a foreign stock market debut.

howev, a report in the china-publish econom observ said on mondai that the two bank mai have scrap plan to list in new york becaus of the cost of meet regulatori requir impos sinc the enron scandal. bank of china is the countri's biggest foreign exchang dealer, while china construct bank is the largest deposit holder. china's bank sector is burden with at least $190bn of bad debt accord to offici data, though most observ believ the true figur is far higher. offici, on in five loan is not be repaid. attempt to strengthen intern control and tighten lend polici have uncov a success of scandal involv embezzl by bank offici and loan-for-favour. the most high-profil case involv the ex-presid of bank of china, wang xueb, jail for 12 year in 2003. although, he commit the offenc whilst run bank of china in new york, mr wang wa head of china construct bank when the scandal broke. earlier thi month, a china construct bank branch manag wa jail for life in a separ case.

china's bank us to act as cash offic for state enterpris and did not requir check on credit worthi. the introduct of market reform ha been accompani by attempt to modernis the bank sector, but link between bank and local govern remain strong. last year, china's premier, wen jiabao, target bank lend practic in a seri of speech, and regul order all big loan to be scrutinis, in an attempt to cool down irrespons lend. china's leader see reform the top four bank as vital to distribut capit to profit compani and protect the health of china's econom boom. but two problem persist. first, ineffici state enterpris continu to receiv protect from bankruptci becaus thei emploi larg number of peopl. second, mani question loan come not from the big four, but from smaller bank. anoth high profil financi firm, china life, is face sharehold lawsuit and a probe by the us secur and exchang commiss follow it 2004 new york list over it failur to disclos account irregular at it parent compani.
