water firm suez in argentina row

a conflict between the argentin state and water firm agua argentina, control by franc's suez, is cast doubt on the firm's futur.

the firm, which serv the provinc of bueno air, want a tariff rise of 60% to fund water-suppli improv. the govern ha reject the 60% rise and want agua argentina to make an annual invest of 400m peso ($136m; £72.3m) in improv. plan minist julio de vido ha offer state help but not for "free".

mr de vido said that the argentin state would not make a contribut "in the form of a subsidi".

he ha said a contribut could be made in return for a seat on the compani's board. he ad that the govern is in discuss with agua argentina about what role it might take in the event that a state contribut is agre. howev, agua argentina told the argentin newspap clarin it would not accept ani chang to it legal structur and, in practic, thi rule out state particip on it board. the plan minist didn't rule out the possibl of cancel agua argentina water concess. yet he ad that he didn't like to do "futurolog". but last week, argentin econom minist, roberto lavagna, told the french media in pari that the govern wa consid allow a 16% increas in tariff and the possibl of a state contribut to agua argentina infrastructur invest. speak in bueno air, mr de vido later deni the possibl of ani tariff increas and insist that the annual invest in water infrastructur wa at the centr of the discuss. he ad that in the come week the futur of agua argentina would be decid. suez own 40% of agua argentina (39.9%), while spain's agua de barcelona is it second biggest sharehold with 25.01%. recent, suez lost a water concess in bolivia after mass protest in the citi of el alto (the poorest in the countri), with citizen complain of unfair water charg. thi forc the govern to cancel the contract.

in argentina, suez's subsidiari, which ha been fine for cut the suppli of water dure a recent heat wave and allegedli fail to keep up invest to meet the demand for water, ha maintain a tens relationship with the argentin govern. dure the last financi crisi in argentina, the firm su the state alleg that convert it tariff from us dollar to peso, and then freez them dure devalu, had affect the compani and made it difficult for it to meet it contractu oblig. when presid nestor kirchner of argentina arriv in power he began to negoti a solut to the disagr with intern util oper in argentina. but he ha reject ani tariff increas, alleg thi will impoverish citizen further. he ha also ask for more invest to meet the grow demand for water. on mai 2004, agua argentina and the govern sign an agreement to renegoti it bueno air water-concess contract. the firm agre to invest 242m peso. the issu ha attract european interest. last week in pari, presid kirchner discuss thi problem and other issu with french presid jacqu chirac. the argentin govern is also under pressur from european union countri and the intern monetari fund (imf) to rais util tariff, becaus most of the util oper in argentina ar european.
