aid and climat top davo agenda

climat chang and the fight against aid ar lead the list of concern for the first dai of the world econom forum in the swiss resort of davo.

some 2,000 busi and polit leader from around the globe will listen to uk prime minist toni blair's open speech on wednesdai. mr blair will focu on africa's develop plan and global warm. earlier in the dai came an updat on effort to have 3 million peopl on anti-aid drug by the end of 2005. the world health organis (who) said 700,000 peopl in poor countri were on life-extend drug - up from 440,000 six month earlier but amount to onli 12% of the 5.8 million who need them. a $2bn "fund gap" still stood in the wai of hit the 2005 target, the who said.

the theme to be stress by mr blair - whose attend wa announc at the last minut - ar those he want to domin the uk's chairmanship of the g8 group of industrialis state. other issu to be discuss at the five-dai confer rang from china's

econom power to iraq's futur after thi sundai's elect. asid from mr blair, more than 20 other world leader ar expect to attend includ french presid jacqu chirac - due to speak by video link after bad weather delai hi helicopt - and south african presid thabo mbeki, whose arriv ha been delai by ivori coast peac talk. the ukrain's new presid, viktor yushchenko, will also be there - as will newli elect palestinian leader mahmoud abba. showbiz figur will also put in an appear, from u2 frontman bono - a well-known campaign on trade and develop issu - to angelina joli, a goodwil campaign for the un on refuge.

unlik previou year, protest against the wef ar expect to be mute. anti-globalis campaign have call off a demonstr plan for the weekend. at the same time, about 100,000 peopl ar expect to converg on the brazilian resort of porto alegr for the world social forum - the so-call "anti-davo" for campaign against globalis, for fair trade, and mani other caus.

in contrast, the davo forum is domin by busi issu - from outsourc to corpor leadership - with boss of more than a fifth of the world's 500 largest compani schedul to attend. a survei publish on the ev of the confer by pricewaterhousecoop said four in ten busi leader were "veri confid" that their compani would see sale rise in 2005. asian and american execut, howev, were much more confid than their european counterpart. but the polit discuss, focus on iran, iraq and china, ar like to domin media attent.
