uk economi end year with spurt

the uk economi grew by an estim 3.1% in 2004 after acceler in the last quarter of the year, sai the offic for nation statist (on).

the figur is in line with treasuri and bank of england forecast. the on sai gross domest product (gdp) rose by a strong 0.7% in the three month to 31 decemb, compar with 0.5% in the previou quarter. the rise came despit a further declin in product output and the worst christma for retail in decad.

the annual figur mark out the best year sinc 2000, and wa also well ahead of the 2.2% record in 2003. growth in the final three month of 2004 mark the 50th consecut quarter of expans. "on the basi of the latest inform the uk ha enter 2005 on cours to continu it record period of growth," said paul boateng, chief secretari to the treasuri in a statement.

the on said the servic sector, which account for nearli three-quarter of the uk economi, grew 1.0% in the quarter. the strong servic figur wa welcom by analyst, given lacklustr retail sale in decemb and across the christma holidai period. "the fact that other servic compon ar do so well suggest to me that we ar back to trend (growth) and i am not particularli concern about ani further slowdown," said ross walker, uk economist at rb financi market.

howev, output in the product sector contract 0.5%, the second quarterli fall in row and a state of affair that some economist classifi as a recess. howev the on would not comment on the definit of a recess and whether the manufactur recoveri wa over. but steve radlei, chief economist at the manufactur' organis eef, said: "these figur remain at odd with what is actual happen on the ground. "whilst compani mai be experienc tougher condit thi year, 'recess' is not a word that manufactur would current recognis." the on said a sharp fall in mine and quarri, which wa driven by oil and ga extract, wa primarili respons for the overal contract in manufactur product figur.

simon rubinsohn, chief economist at gerrard, said: "thi outturn (of 0.7%) wa well ahead of the market expect and cast doubt on the scare stori do the round surround the current state of the uk economi." and he said the gdp figur mai help to "push interest rate expect a littl higher along the curv". "the suggest from the monei market is that the next move is now more like to be in an upward rather than a downward direct. thi is consist with our own think," said mr rubinsohn. the bank of england's nine-strong rate-set committe vote unanim earlier thi month to keep interest rate steadi at 4.75%, minut of the meet show on wednesdai.
