euro firm miss out on optim

more than 90% of larg compani around the world ar highli optimist about their econom prospect, a survei of 1,300 boss suggest.

their biggest worri ar not terror threat, but over-regul, low-cost competit and the wild up and down of oil price. there is on except: firm in western europ - but not the uk - ar lack confid after year of slow growth. when busi advis pricewaterhousecoop (pwc) conduct the same survei two year ago, nearli 30% of boss were gloomi about their prospect.

global busi leader sai that thei ar face a two-prong regulatori assault. after a string of corpor scandal in the unit state - from enron to worldcom - the sarban-oxlei act forc compani to be much more transpar, but do all the paperwork cost a lot of time and monei. across europ, meanwhil, all stock exchang-list compani ar current in the process of move to new and complex account standard call ifr. hack through the red tape can hardli be avoid, but mani chief execut around the world appear to have decid on how to deal with low-cost competitor.

alreadi, about 28% of the boss poll for the survei sai that thei have move part of their busi into low-wage countri, and anoth 11% plan to do so in the futur. possibl as a result, the worri about low-cost competit ha slightli fallen from last year, with just 54% of compani call it a "signific threat" or "on of the biggest threat". but pwc's global chief execut, samuel dipiazza, said a grow number of compani were also concern that move to outsourc work to cheaper countri could both hurt their reput in their home market and harm the qualiti of servic thei provid to their custom.

accord to frank brown, global advisori leader at pwc , the trend of larg compani to have global oper ha on clear upsid: "on risk in on region - for exampl the middl east - won't kill your busi anymor." surprisingli, the survei suggest that the rapid declin of the us dollar is not seen as a huge threat anymor, unlik even a year ago, when it wa cite as the third-largest problem. mr dipiazza said the interview with chief execut suggest that compani had "adjust" to the new realiti of a euro that bui $1.30 and more, while other had successfulli hedg their posit and lock in more favour exchang rate.


 - for the survei, pricewaterhousecoop interview 1,324 chief execut throughout the world dure the last three month of 2004.
