levi take whitbread novel prize

orang prize winner andrea levi ha seen her book small island win the whitbread novel of the year award.

she is now favourit to win the overal prize after beat booker winner alan hollinghurst's the line of beauti. geraldin mccaughrean ha pick up the children's fiction award for the third time for not the end of the world. all the categori winner go through to compet for the whitbread book of the year titl, which carri with it a £25,000 prize. a panel of judg includ sir trevor mcdonald, actor hugh grant and writer joann harri will meet up on 25 januari to decid the overal winner, with the announc be made later that even.

bookmak william hill ha place london-base levi's novel as the 6/4 favourit to win.

small island, levi's fourth novel, is set in post-war england and centr on a landladi and her lodger. on is a jamaican who join british troop to fight hitler but find life difficult out of uniform when he settl in london. the judg, who includ author jenni colgan and amanda craig, were full of prais for her write. "what could have been a didact or preachi prospect turn out to hilari, move human and ey-pop. it's hard to think of anybodi not enjoi it," wrote the judg. the first novel section wa won by susan fletcher for ev green, beat the favourit jonathan strang and mr norrel by susanna clark. fletcher ha recent graduat from graduat from the univers of east anglia creativ write cours. waterston's fiction writer buyer suzi door said: "it is great to see susan fletcher win in the first novel categori. as a rel unknown author thi award will give her exposur to a wider and mass audienc that she mai not have reach and is a perfect exampl of the influenc of the whitbread. "fresh out of univers she is certainli on to watch."

in the biographi categori it wa john gui's the life of mari queen of scot that wa pick as winner. the judg call it "an impress and readabl piec of scholarship, which cannot fail but leav the reader move and intrigu by thi most tragic and likeabl of queen". gui ha publish mani histori, includ tudor england. he is a fellow at clare colleg, cambridg and becam a honorari research professor of the univers of st andrew in 2003. michael symmon robert' fourth collect of poem scoop the poetri award. hi work mix mystic, erotica and philosophi through life, death and resurrect. as well as write poetri, symmon robert also make documentari film. children's winner mccaughrean, who went into magazin publish after studi teach, previous won the whitbread prize in 1987 with a littl lower than angel and in 1994 with gold dust. she ha previous been the winner of the blue peter book of the year.
