arthur hailei: king of the bestsel

novelist arthur hailei, who ha di at the ag of 84, wa known for hi bestsel page-turner explor the inner work of variou industri, from the hotel to high financ.

born in luton, bedfordshir, on 5 april 1920, hailei wa the onli child of work class parent, thei could not afford to keep him in school beyond the ag of 14. he serv as a pilot with the royal air forc dure world war ii, fly fighter plane to the middl east. it wa an occup that wa later to featur in hi authori debut, the televis screenplai flight into danger. hailei emigr to canada in 1947, where he eventu becam a citizen. he want to be a writer from an earli ag, but did not take it up profession until hi mid-thirti, when he wa inspir to write hi first screenplai while on a return flight to toronto.

"i fell to daydream. i visualis the pilot at the control and wonder what would happen if thei both got sick. could i fly the airplan? i wa a rusti wartim pilot who hadn't flown for nine year... " hailei later recal. the canadian broadcast corpor bought flight into danger for $600 (£318) and it wa shown on tv in april 1956. it wa later memor spoof in the 1980 comedi airplan!, star lesli nielsen. hailei work as a screenwrit for a coupl of year, befor turn to novel. he went on to produc 11 best-sell book, which were publish into 38 languag in 40 countri. flight into danger wa adapt to becom hailei's first novel, runawai zero-eight in 1958. the final diagnosi and in high place follow, both achiev a popular follow. but it wa not until hotel, in 1965, that hollywood came call. the hit novel took four year to write, and stai on nation best-seller list for a full year. it wa turn into a movi in 1967 and later adapt into a glossi soap in the 1980s, star jame brolin. airport (1968) arguabl remain hailei's best-love work and prompt the disast movi genr. the thriller follow event in the sky, and on the ground at a snow-log airport, when a terrorist board an airplan with a bomb.

the book wa adapt into a hit film in 1970, star burt lancast as the harass aiport manag and dean martin as a womanis pilot, alongsid jean seberg and jacquelin bisset. in a testament to the popular of the fledgl disast genr - three sequel follow. the writer wa known for hi painstak research into the profess around which each novel wa centr, draw hi charact "from real life" and take up to three year to produc each book. "i have never been abl to write quickli or easili. i am too self-critic for that. i am never satisfi," he onc said. in 1969, he move to nassau in the bahama, with hi wife sheila. wheel (1971), the moneychang (1975) and overload (1979) follow. despit a lukewarm respons from critic, and few literari accolad, hailei wa at the height of hi fame in the seventi and continu to attract the attent of hollywood produc. strong medicin, hailei's blockbust focus on the pharmaceut industri, wa turn into a film in 1986, star sam neill, dougla fairbank jr and a panopli of former soap star. the 1997 novel detect prove to be hailei's final book, when at the ag of 77 he decid to retir. hailei's health began to deterior in recent year, twice undergo heart surgeri. he suffer a stroke just two month ago. he di in hi sleep on wednesdai, after dinner with hi wife and two of hi six children at hi home in new provid island. "he had a wonder life. hi greatest ambit wa to see hi name on a book and he certainli achiev that," said hi wife, sheila.
