obituari: dame alicia markova

dame alicia markova, who ha di in bath ag 94, wa the uk's first prima ballerina of the modern ag, and, in her heydai, the greatest in the western world.

she wa born lilian alicia mark in london in 1910. her parent were comfort off - her father, a mine engin, drove a roll royc. when she wa eight, her mother took a decis which chang her life. fear that she had flat feet and weak leg, she arrang for her to have ballet lesson. veri quickli it becam appar that she wa someth special. she wa spot by the russian artist impresario, sergei diaghilev, who want her to danc for hi compani, ballet russ. she becam ill with diphtheria but kept in touch, and, eventu, with a gover in tow, join diaghilev in mont carlo when she wa 14.

from here, she tour europ, plai in all the top venu. it wa diaghilev who chang her name without even consult her. her life wa on of great excit. peopl such as matiss and stravinski becam like uncl to her, the latter put in charg of her music educ. soon after diaghilev's death in 1929, alicia markova return to england and becam britain's first intern ballerina. she help launch the ballet club at the mercuri theatr (later the ballet rambert), the vic well ballet, and then, with anton dolin, the markova-dolin ballet of 1935-37. she also began work with young choreograph such as anthoni tudor and frederick ashton who becam huge influenc on the direct of ballet in the west.

her version of gisel, all light and grace, is still consid to be among the finest ever. she wa also outstand in the dy swan. she wa on of the first british ballerina to take a major part in le sylphid. she, abov all, help popularis ballet both in britain and in america.

alicia markova spent world war ii in the unit state where, in a re-form ballet russ, she plai to huge audienc. she even appear in hollywood movi. in 1950, back in england, she and anton dolin jointli establish the festiv ballet. she retir in 1963, an "instant decis" she said, "larg becaus of a leg injuri". creat a dame, she made a new career for herself as a teacher. she also travel the world direct ballet compani and put on show. she becam director of ballet for the metropolitan opera ballet in new york, and for some year wa full-time professor of ballet and perform art in the univers of cincinnati. a critic onc said of dame alicia markova's danc: "she gave the illus of move as if she had no weight to get off the ground."
