fear rais over ballet futur

fewer children in the uk ar follow in the dainti footstep of dancer like darcei bussel, and carv out potenti career as ballet dancer.

new research from the royal academi of danc (rad) ha found fewer children over the ag of 10 ar attend ballet class and take exam in the disciplin. the organis blame the grow popular of comput game and other chang in lifestyl. and there ar fear that if the trend is not revers, there could be fewer british ballet star in the futur. the rad found that the number of youngster take their ballet exam drop by almost 70% after the ag of 10 or 11. danc teacher ev trew, who ha taught ballet for over 48 year, told bbc new she had seen a "vast" chang over the year. she blame modern lifestyl for the fall in ballet attend. "i think the children of mani year ago did not have as mani hobbi," she said. "the troubl now is that thei ar wide open to comput, gameboi and everyth els children have got. "as a result, there is less time be spent on ballet lesson."

hazel gilbert, 23, an inform manag from newcastl, gave up ballet at the ag of 10 and is typic of the problem. "it's not a veri cool thing to do when you go to 'big' school and i think you have to be veri focus on ballet to want to carri on do it," she said. "i us to love it, but after a certain ag it becom much more disciplin and i didn't want that. "i start get into other thing, like swim and kickbox, and ballet just wasn't someth i want to do ani more." ms trew, who run a danc school in gateshead, admit it would be "veri difficult" to revers the trend and said mani young ballet dancer were no longer will to make the sacrific to succe. "you have to be veri dedic and you have to be veri disciplin. "it is a career that you have got to realli want to do becaus it is such hard work. "children these dai have not got the time to spend perfect it... that is veri sad."

current, onli two out of 16 princip dancer at the royal ballet - darcei bussel and jonathan cope - ar british, compar to 16 of the 21 princip in 1985. but a spokesman for the english nation ballet told bbc new that although onli two out of their 12 princip dancer were british, around a quarter of the compani's dancer were from the uk. he said competit at open audit in london wa "fierc" between talent dancer from all over the world. the rad have launch a new competit to try and revers the declin in british ballet. dame antoinett siblei, presid of the rad, launch the fonteyn nureyev young dancer competit earlier thi week.

aim at children ag 10 to 13, it is hope the contest will help keep british ballet evolv. a spokeswoman for the rad said: "it is our respons to re-ignit the passion and nurtur young dancer for the long-term futur of ballet. "we need to provid them with a framework and a goal to work toward, with constant support and coach in an environ where thei can work with their peer and possibl lead artist and choreograph. "perhap more importantli provid them with the opportun to experi 'perform' themselv. "what better wai to reignit a passion for ballet than to let them experi the thrill of perform?"
