uk's nation galleri in the pink

the nation galleri, home to some of the uk's greatest artwork, ha seen a big jump in visitor number.

five million visitor made the london galleri - which hous treasur like raphael's madonna of the pink - the uk's most visit museum in 2004. it record a 13.8% rise in number and wa the countri's second most visit tourist attract, behind blackpool pleasur beach. charl saumarez smith, the galleri's director, said he wa "delight". he said the number of visitor through the door had boost figur to pre-11 septemb 2001 level. mr saumarez smith ad that the pedestrianis of trafalgar squar, where the galleri is locat, and strong temporari collect throughout 2004 had led to the strong perform.

"our 2004 exhibit programm of el greco, russian landscap in the ag of tolstoi and raphael: from urbino to rome wa particularli strong and exceed all target," he said. "the except qualiti of the paint in our perman collect is also huge draw for the public. "the expect of todai's visitor ar higher than ever and we have kept pace with their demand." mr saumarez smith said he wa confid the galleri could maintain the attend. "with import exhibit of the work of caravaggio, stubb and ruben in place for 2005, i am confid that the galleri is set for anoth highli success year," he ad. the figur were prepar by the associ of lead visitor attract (alva).

it found that the figur had been boost by an increas in european travel to the uk on budget airlin. popular cultur tourist spot such as the tate modern and the natur histori museum all record increas of more than 10% in visitor number compar with 2003. but for legal or confidenti reason some alva member did not submit figur for 2004, includ buckingham palac, windsor castl, madam tussaud and alton tower. alva director robin broke said: "visit from western europ were up by 10% and from north america by some 9% compar to 2003, while number from the rest of the world rose 20%. "european figur were help by the rapid growth of low-cost flight to britain from europ, especi from new eu countri."
