redford's vision of sundanc

despit sport a corduroi cap pull low over hi face plu a pair of dark glass, robert redford cut an unmistak figur through the star-struck crowd at sundanc.

it's a rare downtown appear for the man who start the annual festiv in park citi, utah back in the 1980s. now in it twenti-first year, sundanc continu to grow. some 45,000 peopl ar estim to have descend on thi small ski town with noth but movi on the mind. it's an opportun to meet and make deal. redford want sundanc to be a platform for independ film-maker, but the commerci success of mani showcas film have led to critic that the festiv is becom too mainstream.

smaller festiv like slamdanc and xdanc, which take place dure the same week in park citi, ar compet for sundanc's limelight. but redford is not worri. "the more the merrier," he sai. "the point wa to creat opportun for peopl who mai not have them. "onc independ film had a place where the work could be seen, suddenli the merchant came. with them the celebr came, then the paparazzi - and suddenli it began to take on a whole new tone," explain redford.

"peopl start to sai we had gone mainstream and hollywood, but actual hollywood came to us becaus suddenli there wa good busi in independ film," he add. intern film-maker have alwai been celebr here, but 2005 is the first year a dedic world dramat and documentari competit is be held.

redford want the festiv to encompass viewpoint he believ the american media fail to reflect, particularli how the us is perceiv internation. he ha never hidden the fact that he is a democrat. but he reserv particular disdain for the current republican administr. "it's the abil to maintain the import of dissent in a democrat system which right now is under threat with the attitud of thi administr," he sai. "i think mani voic ar be shut down or accus of be unpatriot if thei want to express anoth point of view. that's veri unhealthi and veri danger.

"if we take that polici into the world, there will be the same victim and the same consequ." sundanc isn't just on big screen. there ar discuss panel and q&a session with director tackl controversi topic like america's "cultur war" and the iraq war. while redford wish the festiv to be a forum for dissent, the profil of the audienc is fairli monolith. educ, middl class and predominantli white american come sundanc, with view from the same end of the polit spectrum - anti-war and social liber. but redford know thi and start the sundanc tv channel in an effort to reach a wider audienc. "when you look at the film here, what we ar present is veri much egalitarian. and it's about good film and good stori-tell be it african america, asian, women, gai, lesbian. "sooner or later we will do awai with those stereotyp label and peopl will sai 'it's just a film by so-and so'."
