director nair's vaniti project

indian film director mira nair ha said she wa thrill to be given the chanc to make william makepeac thackerai's novel vaniti fair - as the book ha been a favourit through her life.

the book is on of the classic of english literatur - the stori of scheme 19th centuri social climber becki sharp, plai in the film by rees witherspoon. nair said that she jump at the chanc to work on the film, which she ha - controversi - made in a bollywood style, includ two song-and-danc routin in the film's second half. "it wa serendip realli - i wa offer vaniti fair by the studio focu featur, who had distribut monsoon wed," nair told bbc world servic's masterpiec programm. "thei offer me their next-best thing, not realis that vaniti fair had actual been on of my favourit novel sinc i wa 16 year old in an irish cathol board school in india."

sinc her 1988 debut featur salaam bombai! - nomin for the best foreign languag oscar and winner of best first featur at cann - nair ha becom on of india's most famou and respect director. she is not restrict to bollywood, howev - she follow salaam bombai! with mississippi masala, star denzel washington, and the perez famili, her first hollywood film.

her career peak with monsoon wed in 2001, which won the golden lion award at venic. nair's indian-style adapt of vaniti fair, howev, ha been attack by critic in the us - where it onli reach number eight at the box offic in it open week - who describ the bollywood element as "jar." the film ha a new end, with becki sharp run off for a new life in india. but nair said that her film had pick up on the wai thackerai - who wa born in india but move to england as a young man - had seen the world. "first, when i wa 16, it wa becki sharp, who is a complet memor charact, becaus i recognis myself in her - i recognis all the ladi who did not want to be ladi, who want to buck the system that thei were in," she said. "but it wa the sort of novel i somehow kept at the side of my bed for mani year, and i would dip into everi now and then and suddenli get complet mesmeris again. "as i got older and read it, i think it wa thackerai's clariti - hi clear-sighted about hi own societi, the fact that he wa born in india but came to england as a young man - that gave him the ey of an outsid, and yet he wa an insid. "that perspect wa someth i realli love."

nair also defend her decis to cast an american actress - rees witherspoon - as becki sharp, despit the fact that all the rest of the cast ar british or irish. "i cast intuit - in my film i cast as mani non-actor as i cast actor," she said. "for me, it is intuit - i have to fall in love with an actor. it is a viscer respons.

"thackerai describ becki sharp as a minx. also she's describ as someon who's tini, red-head and thin. rees had that complet minx-like irresist about her." have won the role becaus she seem physic perfectli suit to the part, howev, witherspoon then becam pregnant. but nair said that, though thi had creat the need for some film trick, it had in fact also help the film. "it wa a self-fulfil prophesi - when i first met her husband [actor ryan philipp], i said 'knock her up, won't you, i need some flesh on the girl'," she joke. "i'm not a fan of the underf lo angel actor at all. thi wa, for me, about becki sharp be, eventu, a full-blown woman through the cours of the film. "i love the luminos that pregnanc bring, i love the fleshi, i love the ampl bosom - it gave me much more to plai with." nair explain how camera trick had been us to disguis witherspoon's "bump" in variou scene - includ hire a number of young boi in costum to stand in front of her. "she run, she get off coal cart, she jump off hors - she doe everyth," nair said. "but there's also a certain carriag with hors that is go to wipe the screen at a certain moment, becaus of the bump."
