hollywood readi for oscar night

hollywood is prepar for the biggest night in the film world's calendar, the 77th academi award, on sundai.

a host of star ar expect to grace the red carpet outsid lo angel' kodak theatr, includ johnni depp, cate blanchett and leonardo dicaprio. british actor in attend includ nomine clive owen, imelda staunton, kate winslet and director mike leigh. the aviat lead the shortlist, but critic believ the night mai belong to clint eastwood's million dollar babi. a recent poll of us pundit found eastwood's box drama had becom the new favourit to win best film over the howard hugh biopic.

if the 74-year-old doe win, he will becom the oldest person ever to be name best director at the ceremoni. uk critic still favour the aviat for best film, but believ the best director titl will gener a close fought battl between eastwood and martin scorses.

scorses ha never won the best director prize, despit four previou nomin for film includ rage bull, goodfella and gang of new york. eastwood ha won best director onc befor, for unforgiven in 1993. most expert predict the twice-nomin jami foxx will win best actor for hi portray of singer rai charl, while vera drake star imelda staunton look like to lose out in the best actress field to hilari swank in million dollar babi. the uk's highest hope remain with clive owen, who ha scoop both the golden globe and the bafta for hi support role in closer. actor and comedian chri rock will host the event, which will be broadcast with a seven-second time delai to allow censor to cut out ani unsuit content.

"we have the bleep machin readi, but bleep will be us as need," produc gil cate told report. howev, he ad that he strongli disapprov of the grow tendenc to censor live broadcast on us tv.

he also plai down fear that rock, who is known for us strong languag in hi stand-up routin, might caus controversi on the night. the 40-year-old comic ha alreadi promis not to swear live on air dure the show. "chri ha a sens of humour and everyth he sai is realli said humor," cate said. "you need a movi star and someon who is a stand-up comic so thei can deal with the vicissitud of the show." secur will also be tight, with polic emploi a system to detect sarin nerv ga. "we ar pull out all the stop," said john miller, chief of counterterror at the lo angel polic depart. the show is "a symbol of american cultur and ha the potenti to be a high-visibl target," he ad. meanwhil, organis have erect a canopi over the red carpet follow an outbreak of torrenti rain in lo angel over the past week. cate said the cover would be remov if the threat of wet weather reced. detail have also emerg of the content of thi year's gift bag, which ar given to nomine and present on the night. thi year's bag will includ a gift certif for a luxuri beach resort, a pair of mink eyelash and a kitchen set with a year's suppli of tea and coffe. the event will be televis by the abc network from 1700 local time (0100 gmt), and on sky movi in the uk from 0130 gmt.
