church anger over bollywood film

roman cathol organis in india have demand the withdraw of a film that depict a priest have an affair with a girl half hi ag.

indian televis channel ar now refus to run the promot materi for the film, sin, ahead of it releas on fridai. the director of the film, vinod pand, sai the movi is not offens and ha refus to withdraw it. cathol ar plan a protest in mumbai (bombai) on wednesdai. the presid of on of mumbai's main cathol organis, dolphi d'souza, sai the portray of an ordain priest as a man of loos moral charact ha hurt the religi sentiment of india's cathol commun.

he call the film "pornograph and sensat". mr d'souza, who is also the vice-presid of the cathol' nation bodi, ha accus the director of the film of portrai a priest in bad light for commerci gain. cathol have urg mr pand to withdraw the film to show respect to the christian commun's hurt sentiment. "religion need to be a person affair and should not be a subject for entertain or for commerci us," joseph dia, gener secretari of the cathol secular forum, said in a statement.

but mr pand said that if the critic were to see the film thei would not protest against it and would not insist on it withdraw. he sai he ha no plan to cancel the film ahead of it schedul screen on fridai.

"it's about forbidden love. there wa no agenda whatsoev to hurt anyon," he said. the bbc's zubair ahm in mumbai sai that the controversi film show a priest in steami scene with a girl half hi ag. she appar goe to him for help but he fall in love with her. it take place in the picturesqu southern indian state of kerala. the film ha alreadi been clear by the censor board with an 'a' (adult onli) certif. mr d'souza sai he is shock at the censor board's decis to clear the film. our correspond sai that india's tv channel have so far refus to be drag into the controversi and have not screen the film's promot materi. most of the cathol commun's anger ha come after watch newspap advertis and hoard of the film. christian make up about two per cent of india's popul of more than a billion peopl.
