god cut from dark materi film

the director and screenwrit of the film adapt of philip pullman's hi dark materi is to remov refer to god and the church in the movi.

chri weitz, director of about a boi, said the chang were be made after film studio new line express concern. the book tell of a battl against the church and a fight to overthrow god. "thei have express worri about the possibl of perceiv anti-religios," weitz told a hi dark materi fan' websit. pullman's trilogi ha been attack by some christian teacher and by the cathol press as blasphemi. weitz, who admit he would not be mani peopl's first choic to direct the film, said he regard the film adapt as "the most import work of my life".

"in part becaus it is on of the few book to have chang my life," he told bridgetothestar.net. the award-win trilogi - northern light, the subtl knife and the amber spyglass - tell the stori of oxford school child lyra belacqua. she is drawn into an epic struggl against the church, which ha been carri out experi on children in an attempt to remov origin sin.

as the book progress the struggl turn into a battl to overthrow the author, a figur who is god-like in the book. weitz, who direct american pie and about a boi, said new line fear that ani anti-religios in the film would make the project "unviabl financi". he said: "all my best effort will be direct toward keep the film as liber and iconoclast an experi as i can. "but there mai be some modif of term."

weitz said he had visit pullman, who had told him that the author could "repres ani arbitrari establish that curtail the freedom of the individu, whether it be religi, polit, totalitarian, fundamentalist, communist, what have you". he ad: "i have no desir to chang the natur or intent of the villain of the piec, but thei mai appear in more subtl guis." there ar a number of christian websit which attack the trilogi for their depict of the church and of god, but pullman ha deni hi book ar anti-religi. hi agent told the time newspap that pullman wa happi with the adapt so far. "of cours new line want to make monei, but mr weitz is a wonder director and philip is veri support. "you have to recognis that it is a challeng in the climat of bush's america,"
