aviat win top globe accolad

the aviat ha been name best film at the golden globe award, with it star leonardo dicaprio name best actor.

hollywood veteran clint eastwood took the best director prize for million dollar babi while it star hilari swank wa best actress. quirki comedi sidewai wa name best screenplai and best comedi. rai star jami foxx wa best actor in a music/comedi while briton clive owen and natali portman won prize for best support role in closer.

the aviat, in which dicaprio plai millionair howard hugh, edg ahead of it rival at the beverli hill ceremoni by win the best origin score prize. thi give it a total of three award while million dollar babi, sidewai and closer took two golden globe each. accept hi best dramat actor prize, dicaprio describ director martin scorses as "on of the greatest contributor to the world of cinema of all time".

annett bene won best actress in a music/comedi for be julia while spanish movi the sea insid wa name best foreign languag film. swank, who previous won the golden globe and oscar for boi don't cry, paid tribut to million dollar babi director and co-star clint eastwood. "you guid us so brilliantli, while you also, in my humbl opinion, gave the perform of your career," she said. foxx wa nomin for three award but wa beaten to the best support actor titl by owen and the best actor in a tv movi prize by geoffrei rush in the life and death of peter seller.

a bbc co-product, the life and death of peter seller wa also name best tv movi. mick jagger and dave stewart won the best origin song award for old habit die hard from movi re-make alfi, while ian mcshane wa name best actor in a tv drama for hi lead role in deadwood.

other uk hope kate winslet and imelda staunton went home empti-hand despit lead actress nomin for etern sunshin of the spotless mind and vera drake respect. win a golden globe is said to improv a film or perform's chanc of subsequ win an academi award. unlik the oscar, the golden globe split award by genr - on prize for drama and the other for music and comedi. the globe also honour the best in televis, with suburban seri desper housew name best tv comedi show. actress teri hatcher beat fellow desper housew star marcia cross and felic huffman to the best comedi actress prize.

hatcher thank the show's cast, crew and "a network who gave me a second chanc at a career when i couldn't have been a bigger 'ha been'". cosmet surgeri seri nip/tuck beat the soprano and deadwood to the best televis drama titl. arrest develop star jason bateman wa name best tv actor in a music or comedi seri. the golden globe ar award by the hollywood foreign press associ, compris film report base in lo angel and work for oversea outlet. robin william, a five-time globe winner for such film as the fisher king and good morn, vietnam, receiv the cecil b demil award for career achiev. he dedic hi prize to superman actor christoph reev, who di last year.
