download enter us singl chart

digit music download ar be includ in the main us singl chart for the first time.

billboard's hot 100 chart now incorpor data from sale of music download, previous onli assign to a separ download chart. green dai's boulevard of broken dream is current number two in billboard's pop chart, and top it digit chart. download sale ar due to be incorpor into the uk singl chart later thi year.

digit sale in the us ar alreadi us to compil billboard's hot digit sale chart. thei will now be talli with sale of physic singl and airplai inform to make up it new hot 100 chart. it second new chart - the pop 100 - also combin airplai, digit and physic sale but confin it airplai inform to us radio station which plai chart music. in addit to green dai, other artist in the current us digit sale top 10 includ kelli clarkson, the game and the killer.

sale of legal download song shot up more than tenfold in 2004, with 200 million track purchas onlin in the us and europ in 12 month, the intern feder of the phonograph industri (ifpi) report last month. in the uk sale of song download overtook those for physic singl for the first time at the end of last year. the last week of decemb 2004 saw download sale of 312,000 compar with 282,000 physic singl, accord to the british phonograph industri. the uk's first offici music download chart wa launch last septemb, compil the most popular track download from legal uk site - includ itun, od2, mycokemus.com and napster. westlif's fly without wing - a 1999 track reissu for the occas - wa the first number on of the uk download chart.

a spokesman for the british phonograph industri (bpi) said the first combin uk download and sale chart wa due to be compil "within the first half of thi year". "work is go on across the music busi right now to make sure the new chart work to plan," he said. the bpi spokesman describ the uk music download chart, compil by the offici chart compani, as have been "a great success" sinc it launch. "it ha provid a focu for the industri and ha realli driven interest in download among music fan," he said.
