'my memori of marlei...'

to mark the 60th anniversari of the birth of regga star bob marlei, rob partridg - marlei's former head of press at island record - rememb the man behind the legend.

partridg work with marlei from 1977 until the jamaican musician's death in 1981.

: "i join island record in 1977 and the first week i wa there i work on hi show at the rainbow theatr. it wa on of the last date he did in london."

: the album exodu came out in 1977 and that provid five hit and confirm hi global superstar statu. "by 1979 he wa the biggest tour attract in the world. i rememb go to see date in milan and turin and thei were enorm concert."

: bob wa on of the most mesmer peopl i've ever had the privileg to work with. "he must have had an iron will to succe. bob wa a veri driven individu. you realis from the start there wa a manifest destini within him that he believ in. he didn't suffer fool gladli. at the risk of state the obviou, he wa an extraordinari song writer and hi stage act wa perhap the greatest i've ever seen. i saw him mani time."

: "i recal in 1978 he came to the uk for top of the pop and a daili mirror journalist did a half-hour interview. it wa interrupt to do a rehears. he came back into the dress room to resum the interview but saw a world cup match on tv.

"he sat down in front of the tv and after 10 minut it wa obviou he wasn't go to move. that wa the end of it. the mirror had a veri truncat interview. "the last time i saw him wa in london in 1980. i arrang for him to plai four dai of footbal indoor in fulham. "bob wa a good player. we ar talk about jamaican-style footbal. he wa an attack midfield player. hi team assembl wherev hi gig were. we plai in brazil against some world cup-win player."

: it wa alwai a struggl for him to connect with black america. regga did not correspond with disco in the 70s. but bob in the 1990s becam on of the great icon in america and the third world. "in 1991, ten year after hi death, he sold more record than at ani time dure hi life. "we saw black america take bob into their heart for the first time."

: "bob, in worldwid term, is the greatest music star there ha ever been. if you went to africa he would be recognis everywher, in place john lennon or elvi wouldn't be. "no disrespect to the other artist but a case can be made for him as the greatest, the best and the most influenti artist in popular music."

: well 1981 wa to be the year he tour africa with stevi wonder. he had onli perform in zimbabw and guinea befor. "of cours the 1981 tour never happen, but the whole of africa would have embrac him. we can't specul but he wa at the height of hi power and just 36 year old. i had no sens hi career wa go to go downhil."

: "bob wa endlessli optimist about the wai africa would turn out. he realis that noth wa perfect but he had total belief in the power of mankind. "i'm sure if he were aliv todai he would believ africa would firstli becom polit free and secondli be abl to defeat the aid epidem."

: "the final tune of hi final album wa redempt song - on of the most incred classic of all time."
