danc music not dead sai fatboi

dj norman cook - aka fatboi slim - ha said that danc music is not dead, but ha admit it is current go through a "fallow patch".

the commerci failur of the latest album by britain's two biggest danc act - fatboi slim's palookavil and the prodigi's alwai outnumb never outgun - ha been coupl with the closur of mani "superclub," and the fold of three danc music magazin. last month the brit award announc thei would no longer be award a best danc act prize, with the brit committe announc that "danc music is no longer where it's happen in music." these develop lead some to suggest that danc wa finish as a popular music genr. cook acknowledg that much chang in the danc world in the four year sinc hi last album, halfwai between the gutter and the star, but he stress thi did not mean the danc scene wa perman over. "everi week when i wa make the album, i wa read articl about the demis of danc music - and obvious that affect you somewhat," he told bbc world servic's the ticket programm. "i person don't believ it's either dead or go to die, but it's go through a bit of a fallow patch. "so i think, conscious or subconsci, read everi week that danc music wa dead i would think 'right, scrub that track then'."

although hi album sale in the uk ar down - palookavil stai in the uk top 75 for just three week - cook ha achiev recent global success with hi beach parti. and event on brighton sea front in 2002 attract 250,000, peopl, while a later on in rio achiev a crowd of 360,000. the dvd of the rio set wa the biggest seller of that year.

"with a crowd that big, if the weather's nice, the atmospher befor i even go is so good that about halfwai through the first record i think 'i've got them'," cook said. "i'm alwai realli realli nervou befor the big on - thei had to give me valium befor rio, becaus two hour befor i wa liter just pace the floor. "for some reason, especi now i've got a reput for it, the atmospher and the joie de vivr that's alreadi go on mean all i have to do is plai 'up' record." he promis more such parti in more locat around the world - despit problem after the brighton event, which end in chao with mani revel find themselv strand as transport ground to a halt. on man also di of a heart attack, and a woman fell to her death dure the free parti. "we're have to widen our horizon from just beach, becaus there's landlock countri that want to get involv," cook said. "we're do rio at the carniv, at the maracana, and sao paolo - our new gig is famou footbal stadium."

the dj admit, howev, that hi massiv worldwid success had a downsid, with intens media interest in hi person life. in particular, he said he had struggl to cope with tabloid intrus dure the temporari break-up of hi marriag to radio on present zoe ball, after she wa link with dj dan pepp.

"the tabloid thing ha been difficult at time," cook said. "especi the me-and-zoe-gate - it's quit scari." he said that he had been "determin" that what had happen with ball did not affect the album. "at first i wa do deliber jolli tune so that peopl wouldn't think i wa depress," he explain. "then i thought, 'that's not right'." and he highlight a bizarr coincid - that on song written befor thei split had turn out to have a great deal more mean than intend. "i said to zoe, 'i did thi track call my masochist babi went and left me, do you mind if it's on the album?'" he recal. "she said, 'yeah, it's hilari, becaus your masochist babi did leav you'." cook also ad that he had some wai of cope with the intens paparazzi pressur, which accumul at the end of the privat road he live on - where paul mccartnei is a neighbour. "it's almost like prison rattl the bar with their mug," cook explain. "if there's a pap at the end of the road, everyon knock on each other's door - paul come round, and we warn him, becaus we don't know who thei're after."
