franz man seek govern help

franz ferdinand frontman alex kaprano ha call for more govern help for musician, while take part in an edinburgh lectur discuss.

"for ani cultur output to thrive there need to be some kind of state input to that as well," he said. but kaprano warn against musician be too close link with mp, at the univers of edinburgh event. "i think the role of musician is to question politician rather than to go to bed with them," he said.

kaprano join the prestigi lectur seri to discuss scotland's role in make 21st centuri music. "there ar element of our music output which requir susten becaus thei aren't self-suffici," he said. "but so-call commerci music would benefit from invest as well." he warn musician against be alli to a particular parti, howev. "i don't know if have tea with politician is alwai a good idea."

kaprano and hi glasgow four-piec band have been nomin for five prize at next week's brit award, includ best group and best album. their self-titl debut album won last year's mercuri music prize and spawn three top 20 singl. he told the 300-strong audienc at the univers's reid hall that musician should listen to a wide rang of music and should not be restrict by stereotyp. "we sai 'i like thi'. becaus i listen to nirvana and korn i am a troubl individu, i'm riddl with angst becaus i listen to chopin and debussi, i listen to kyli minogu and scissor sister becaus i'm upbeat and i like to parti, i listen to wagner becaus i like the smell of napalm in the morn." kaprano said there wa a gener "hostil" toward classic music, ad: "there is veri littl done to break that hostil other than classic fm."

he conclud: "we defin ourselv as a nation by the wai we encourag our creativ." fellow speaker and classic compos jame macmillan agre: "we need to rediscov our abil to listen." previou speaker at the edinburgh lectur seri have includ former soviet leader mikhail gorbachev and author professor stephen hawk. kaprano describ hi appear on wednesdai as "more daunt by a long wai" than their upcom brit perform. "i don't realli care about the brit," he said. "it's go to be great to go down but i have actual had to exercis part of my brain tonight."

i think the govern should do more to help up-and-come artist be discov by scrap the entertain licenc for live venu. also thei should do more to help independ record label have a louder voic within an industri domin by commercialis major label.

rather than expect the govern - i.e. the taxpay - to fork out, why don't some of the megastar put someth back in? some of britain's wealthiest peopl ar musician who have rake it in from album, concert etc. there ar far more import demand on govern fund.

if thei can fund footbal, why not fund music?

area of the art ar fund by govern and lotteri grant, so why not music? we alreadi have the opera receiv huge grant and it would clearli be benefici for divers in music to have the same opportun in other area of the music. the onli problem would be how to judg what merit state cash.

the govern ha enough problem fund school and health servic. if alex kaprano genuin think a multi-billion pound industri should also have govern fund then hi own educ wa serious lack and more monei should be put into that.

as a scot live in england, i appreci the valu of scottish music and cultur be a success, so i can see no problem with it! franz ferdinand, travi and snow patrol ar just recent exampl of the success scottish music can have in the world, so we should do what we scot ar good at and support our own good!

i think the issu is more fundament: should the govern be spend monei on subsidis a multi-million pound industri when health and educ ar in such a sorri state? the answer is most definit no. those peopl who ar lucki enough to pursu their passion to get their pai chequ shouldn't be look for govern subsidi. i know that if i wa lucki enough to be abl to pursu my dream of show jump i would want to financ myself until i wa in a posit to pursu corpor sponsorship.

ye the govern should fund music - it bring joi to the mass.

there ar alreadi thousand of state-fund musician out there sit around, twiddl their thumb on the "new deal". get the govern even more involv would onli wast monei that could be put to better us.

as long as the govern wa fund real talent it would be a great move. i would hate to see more pop idol-type fund of music though, as it would onli serv to reinforc the stereotyp that alex talk about.

onli if the propos make financi sens. franz ferdinand must be pai seriou amount of tax on their record sale - if thei'd had a govern grant to get start thei'd have more than paid it back by now, so the treasuri would be make far more than it paid out. howev, the govern ha better thing to spend it monei on than to give chariti to everyon who decid thei're a musician. the govern shouldn't "fund" music - it should "invest" in music and those invest should be treat like ani other invest.

i think the govern need to provid facil and for young group and band to form and practis. the equip is not cheap and can be well beyond the mean of mani peopl. howev, i do feel thi should be the extent of their role, to provid the condit for the talent to flourish and let it go from there.

i do agre that the govern should help to fund music but there is also a respons held by record compani! thei gener alwai opt for the tri and test and tend not to want to break ani mould or risk lose ani monei which ultim, the director ar in the busi for! if label were more will to put monei forward toward smaller breakthrough act then the govern wouldn't have to fork out a great deal.

yeah, why not? music should be govern fund, particularli the work of modern compos and veteran band/artist and stuff. pop music pretti much rule the earth, so more attent should go to the other fratern

i agre with fund the art to make it more access to the public but i am not convinc that pop music requir financi support from the taxpay. there is a great deal of monei gener through pop music - perhap a tax on pop could be plough into the public perform of other form of music for everyon to enjoi. perhap we could financi penalis realli bad pop idol-style music - that is, the music industri sector without ani artist merit or origin whatsoev and that which is specif design to line the pocket of music produc. call it a tax on music "pollut", if you like.

though i realli like franz ferdinand, i have to disagre with mr kaprano. onc govern get their hand into the privat sector, it will destroi the creativ and possibl controversi avenu the artist pursu. mani year ago, thi wa the case with the us nea, when the govern start to question what wa consid art for the monei thei were allot. the solut mr kaprano should pursu would be privat-fund organ, like save the music in the us.
