hard act to follow for outkast

us rap duo outkast's trio of trophi at the mtv europ award crown a year of huge success for the band.

the latest triumph add to the three grammi and four american mtv gong won earlier in thi year. andr 3000 and big boi's album speakerboxxx/the love below ha been critic acclaim sinc it releas and sold in larg quantiti around the world. the doubl album - which saw the pair produc on disc each - top the chart in the us at the same time as singl hei ya! it took anoth track from the expon of southern hip-hop - the wai you move - to displac it from the top spot. the georgia pair's year of critic and commerci triumph leav them with a tough act to follow - what can be next for a music act that ha done it all?

g monei, a present on the bbc's urban music station 1xtra, think a hiatu is inevit after such a sustain period of exposur - give the band time to think about other interest. "thei might be more appear outsid the band, such as produc for other artist, while thei have a number of fring music project. "andr 3000 would like to go into act, so we might see him a film, while big boi alreadi ha a dog-breed busi," sai the dj.

"but in a coupl of year thei will be back with anoth album which will be a collabor unlik their doubl cd. "their great ha becom clear with speakerboxxx/the love below. we haven't seen the last of them," he add. outkast's music career span 10 year and thei have enjoi commerci and critic success in the past, with their debut southernplayalisticadillacmuzik go platinum. but it took until 2001 for the pair to score their first hit in the uk with ms jackson, while their album stakonia saw their fame spread beyond the us.

1xtra's g monei sai it took the latest album, releas in 2003, for him to be "assur of their geniu". "thei have alwai been experiment, some of it ha work and some hasn't," he add. but g monei acknowledg that make the next move for a band that ha reach a pinnacl can be tough. "what can you do next when you've done it all?" he sai. with ten year of success behind them and worldwid fame, it seem that outkast is not a name that is like to be forgotten in a hurri.
