sir paul rock super bowl crowd

sir paul mccartnei wow fan with a live mini-concert at american footbal's super bowl - and avoid ani janet jackson-style controversi.

the 62-year-old sang hei jude and other beatl song in a 12-minut set at half-time dure the game in florida. last year, jackson expos a breast dure a danc routin, caus outrag among million of tv viewer and land the cb tv network a fine. sir paul, howev, did noth more raci than remov hi jacket as he sang. organis were wide consid to be plai it safe thi year by book 62-year-old sir paul for hi second super bowl show.

three year ago, he wa invit to perform at the first super bowl after the septemb 11 attack and perform hi special-written song freedom. thi time, he start off the show, at the alltel stadium in jacksonvil, florida, with the beatl number drive my car and get back. he then perform a mellow version of live and let die, the jame bond theme he record with the band wing. final, he close the show with a rous version of hei jude. the former beatl resist ani temptat to refer to janet jackson's headlin-grab perform last year, instead keep banter between song to a minimum in order to squeez as much music as he could into hi slot. the singer remov hi black jacket halfwai through the show - but ani fan hope for a second "nippl-gate" were to be disappoint as he kept hi red sweatshirt on underneath.

earlier, the black ei pea and alicia kei had provid the night's other high-profil entertain by perform in a pre-game show. black ei pea singer fergi wa dress in a tight orang top and purpl hotpant, but noth in her perform wa like to upset tv watchdog. after the controversi last year - which saw cb fine a record $550,000 (£292,000) by feder regul - super bowl organis had turn to produc don mischer to overse thi year's half-time show. hi previou product credit includ olymp open and close ceremoni. the super bowl is watch by an audienc of 144.4 million in the us, with mani of the peopl watch ar said to tune in specif to see the entertain put on around the event. michael jackson, aerosmith, diana ross, gloria estefan and phil collin ar among the star who have previous grace the super bowl stage.
