polic prais 'courag' ozzi

rock star ozzi osbourn ha been prais by polic for "veri courag" tackl a burglar who stole jewelleri from hi hous.

the singer grab an intrud who then jump 30ft (10m) from a first floor window as the star gave chase at hi buckinghamshir home on mondai. "i act on impuls," osbourn said. "in hindsight, it could have been a lot wors. it could've got realli ugli." a £100,000 reward ha been offer for inform lead to a convict. hi wife sharon, who call the polic, said her wed ring were taken from her bedsid tabl as she slept.

the heavi metal star said he could have met the same fate as late beatl georg harrison, who wa repeatedli stab in a break-in in 1999. "i could have been badli injur or shot or anyth," osbourn said. "i just thank god that no-on got injur." he ad he wa glad the intrud were not hurt. "i wouldn't want anyon to get injur." the singer did not want to talk in detail about hi action but when ask whether he would do the same again repli: "is the pope a cathol?" the incid happen at 0400 gmt on mondai in chalfont st peter. detect inspector paul miller of thame vallei polic said it appear a man us a ladder to get into the hous through a first floor bedroom window. "whilst select item of jewelleri, the burglar wa disturb by ozzi who veri courag tackl thi burglar and pursu him from the hous," he said. ozzi said he wa "just come to grip" with what had happen and hi opinion of the uk had been lower after 12 rel troubl-free year in the us.

"we live in lo angel where peopl get shot everi dai and have been trail by lot of differ stalker - and yet we come back to england and i'm veri disappoint." at a press confer on tuesdai, sharon osbourn gave detail of nine stolen item. thei includ a diamond wed ring and two handmad wed band ozzi gave her when thei renew their vow two year ago. she said she wish she had worn them at night. "i alwai take them off and put them besid my bed and that's where thei were, right besid me on my bedsid tabl." also taken were a pearl necklac and a sapphir bought as an invest for their daughter describ by sharon as "on of the onli 24-carat sapphir that is absolut pure".

a daisi chain necklac that wa a 20th anniversari present and a franck muller watch sharon said wa on of onli 10 made were also stolen. she express her anger at the person who "hasn't work and want to take what's your". "but the thing is, we work for everyth. i came from brixton. ozzi came from not a veri nice part of birmingham and everyth we've got we have work our ars off for." "if i choos to make an invest for my kid in whatev wai i choos to make it, that's my busi and i work for everi god damn penni." ozzi also lament two year in which the famili ha been plagu by problem, includ hi critic injuri in a quad bike accid, hi wife's colon cancer, their children' drug problem and now the burglari.

on sundai night, the osbourn had been celebr the birthdai of singer sir elton john's partner david furnish. polic describ the intrud as well-built, about 5' 10" tall and said he wa wear a ski-mask, a light-colour jacket and trainer. thei believ he mai have injur himself when he jump from the window. there is no descript of hi accomplic. polic think the pair were drive a larg vehicl, possibl a van, and ar keen to hear from anyon who mai have seen on leav chalfont st peter at speed. polic appeal for public help to find the perpetr and stolen item on 0845 8 505 505 or 0800 555 111.
