new york rocker top talent poll

new york electro-rock group the braveri have come top of the bbc new websit's sound of 2005 poll to find the music scene's most promis new act.

the braveri, who have been compar to the cure and new order, were the most heavili-tip act in the survei of 110 imparti critic and broadcast. rock band kean won sound of 2004 while us rapper 50 cent top sound of 2003. other new artist in thi year's list includ london indi group bloc parti at second and uk rapper kano third. the braveri plai their first gig in 2003 and have sinc support band includ the libertin, interpol and echo and the bunnymen.

thei were the subject of a record compani bid war in 2004 and their debut singl, uncondit, caus a huge buzz when it wa releas in the uk in novemb. singer sam endicott said he felt "great" about come top of the sound of 2005 list. "anyon that sai thei don't want a zillion scream fan is a jackass, a liar," he said. on of the expert to tip the braveri wa the time' music critic paul connolli, who said thei were "spiki but in love with pop". chri hawkin, host of bbc 6 music's chart show, said the band had "great guitar and a masteri of the electro-clash sound". "the braveri ar proof alon that new york citi is still home to hot new talent," he said. nigel hard, head of music at london rock radio station xfm, said everi track from their live set "sound like a potenti singl".

uncondit reach the summit of the station's listen' chart within a fortnight of it first plai, which mr hard describ as "an unheard of achiev for a debut singl".

q magazin review editor ted kessler said thei were "pretti-boi new york cloth hors" with "an unusu nimbl ear for concis, yearn pop in the mould of duran duran or the stroke". other pundit to take part in the survei includ bbc radio 1 dj trevor nelson, nme editor conor mcnichola, top of the pop present fearn cotton, glastonburi organis emili eavi and bbc radio 2 music editor colin martin. elsewher on the top 10, second-place rock band bloc parti began their rise after support franz ferdinand and uk garag mc kano, in third, is sign to the street' record label. us rapper the game is hip-hop great dr dre's latest proteg while leed group kaiser chief came fifth with a promis to lead a britpop reviv. in last year's survei, kean were follow by franz ferdinand, razorlight and joss stone in the top five - all of whom were virtual unknown outsid the music industri at that point.

boi band mcfly were sixth while scissor sister, who had the uk's best-sell album of 2004, were seventh. in the survei, the pundit were ask for tip for three act thei thought were capabl of reach the top in their chosen genr, either in term of sale or critic acclaim. the artist could be from ani countri and ani music genr, but must not have had a uk top 20 singl, been a contest on a tv talent show or alreadi be famou for do someth els, such as a soap actor. those tip were then count and compil to make the top 10.
