blair bui copi of new band aid

prime minist toni blair purchas two copi of the chariti singl band aid 20 in edinburgh on fridai.

staff were surpris when the prime minist walk into hmv at 0900 gmt, accompani by aid and local polic. "when mr blair came in unannounc, we were all pretti gobsmack," said hmv manag clive smith. "our custom helper approach him... it wa onli then we realis he want to bui copi of the band aid singl, rather than the latest eminem album." predict chart-topper do thei know it's christma? is expect to sell at least 300,000 copi by the time the new chart is announc on sundai. howev, the new version of the 1984 singl is not go to be releas in the us, despit be sold in mani countri around the world. us record shop ar stock an import version of do thei know it's christma, which is said to be sell veri well in lo angel and new york. the origin track wa releas in the us, and reach number 13 in the singl chart. british star who appear on the current record, such as dido and coldplai's chri martin, ar well-known to music fan across the atlant, along with u2 frontman bono.

record compani univers is respons for the global distribut of the singl, which will be avail across europ, asia, south america and canada. but music fan in the us ar still abl to access the song and download it on band aid 20's offici websit. in 1985, a group of high-profil american star known as usa for africa came togeth to record their own fund-rais singl, we ar the world. the song wa written by lionel richi and michael jackson, with quinci jone as produc. it top the us chart for three week and went on win grammi award for best record and song.

dionn warwick, diana ross and tina turner were among the line-up of perform. it is predict that the band aid 20 song will sell 300,000 copi in the uk by the time the new chart is announc on sundai. the record is also tip to becom thi year's christma number on, as the origin version did in 1984. proce from the sale ar go toward relief for the darfur region of sudan and to combat hiv and aid across africa.
