pupil to get anti-piraci lesson

lesson on music piraci and copyright issu ar to be taught to secondari school pupil in the uk.

the lesson, aim at 11 to 14-year-old, will introduc them to copyright - includ the issu of download from the internet and the illeg copi of cd - and it role in protect creativ.

music piraci, includ illeg swap music onlin, cost the uk music industri million everi year and ha been blame for a declin in world-wide cd sale. british music right (bmr) - which wa form to repres the interest of songwrit and compos - work with educ expert to put togeth a learn pack.

songwrit gui chamber, who ha work with star includ robbi william, ha thrown hi support behind the scheme. he said as well as educ children about music piraci, it would also protect young peopl plan a career in the music industri from "unscrupul" individu. at a debat in london to launch the scheme, chamber said: "i think it is import that young peopl receiv practic and engag learn in school. "these lesson will give them an insight into how the creativ industri work which will help them in possibl futur career." the educ pack, which ha alreadi been request by more than 1,600 secondari school, is aim at give children an understand of copyright in relat to the music industri. it will also teach children about the import of royalti and rais awar of differ career in the music industri, particularli in the digit ag.

henri yoxal, gener manag of british music right, told bbc new school had been cry out for a resourc to help them educ pupil about the issu. the scheme - which is an extens of bmr's respect the valu of music campaign - is also be back by singer-songwrit feargal sharkei, luci silva and grammi award-win compos david arnold. silva said: "i think it is so import that student gain an understand of how the music industri work when thei ar at a young ag. "i wish i had been given an opportun like thi when i wa at school." emma pike, director gener of british music right, said: "we believ that copyright is an essenti part of teach music in school. it is vital that the creativ of the futur know how to turn their idea into valu. "copyright educ ha alwai been import... creativ ar face more challeng and more opportun from technolog chang. "technolog is allow peopl to creat music and distribut their music to the public in a whole host of new wai."
