outkast win at mtv europ award

us hip-hop duo outkast have cap a year of award glori with three prize at the mtv europ music award in rome.

thei won best group, best video and best song for hit hei ya! after get five nomin. r&b singer usher won best male and best album for confess, while uk rock band muse were name best altern act and best british artist. outkast will add their award to the four thei won at the us mtv award in august and three grammi in februari. not onli wa hei ya! on of the biggest global hit of last year, but outkast have been wide acclaim as on of the most excit and innov act in music. their doubl cd album speakerboxxx/the love below, which saw andr 3000 and big boi each produc on disc, wa hail as the album of 2003 by mani critic.

andr 3000 thank fan "for support outkast throughout the year". "we realli appreci it," he said. "i hope you don't get tire of us, but we onli do what we do." also compet for best group had been the beasti boi, the black ei pea, d12 and maroon 5. and anastacia, britnei spear, maroon 5 and ludacri had been on the shortlist for best song.

outkast did lose out in the contest for best album - which wa won by usher, anoth award favourit. usher, who perform a duet with alicia kei, also beat off competit from justin timberlak, jai-z, nelli and robbi william to take the best male crown. he had four nomin go into the ceremoni, with seven artist nomin in three categori.

eminem's group, d12, were surpris winner in the best hip-hop categori, beat the beasti boi, jai-z, kany west and nelli. eminem told the crowd: "d12 final won an award, thank you veri much." the rapper open the show with a perform of hi song like toi soldier and just lose it, for which he wa join on stage by a crowd of children. the black ei pea - who had a global hit with where is the love? - pick up the prize for best pop act, beat anastacia, avril lavign, robbi william and britnei spear. spear wa name best femal, send a messag of thank on video sai the award "mean so much to me". alicia kei, anastasia, avril lavign and beyonc knowl had featur alongsid her in that contest.

linkin park singer chester bennington describ their prize for best rock band as "quit an honour" while muse said their win for best altern act wa "a real surpris for us". muse were also name best uk and ireland act, ahead of franz ferdinand, natasha bedingfield, jamelia and the street. refer to the fact that winner of 11 of the 12 main award were from the us, muse singer matt bellami said: "there need to be more european band." the 11th annual award were host by hip-hop artist xzibit and watch by 6,000 peopl at the tor di vall arena, plu million more on tv around the world. the ceremoni featur perform from the beasti boi, who enter the stage on bicycl and skateboard, no doubt singer gwen stefani be lower from a giant clock and nelli do a duet with pharrel william. mtv also organis a huge open-air concert featur anastacia and the cure outsid the italian capit's ancient colosseum, with some estim put the attend there at 200,000. last year's big winner at the mtv europ award, held in edinburgh, scotland, wa justin timberlak, who walk awai with three trophi.
