court halt mark morrison album

premiership footbal and record compani boss kevin campbel ha gain a court injunct stop r&b singer mark morrison from releas an album.

the everton striker sign morrison to hi fledg 2 wikid record label and claim he spent thousand of pound produc hi album innoc man. now he is attempt to prevent morrison releas the album on mondai through anoth label. but morrison vow to ignor the order, sai "no judg is gonna stop me".

morrison, who is now as well known for hi brush with the law than hi music career, rose to fame with the 1996 singl return of the mack.

but the leicest singer ha struggl to repeat it success follow two spell in jail. on wa for hire a stand-in to complet hi commun servic for possess of a stun gun and three-month follow a nightclub fraca. he sign to mr campbel's label a year ago and ha releas on singl, with the label sai the album wa due for releas on 24 januari. but mr campbel said he learn that morrison plan to releas the album through jet star, which is advertis it on it websit. mr campbel said: "i'm glad we were grant the injunct but i'm complet gut that we have had to go that far. "mark morrison wa given everyth he ask for by 2 wikid but it seem that he couldn't help but return to hi old wai.

"i've work hard to realis my ambit in footbal but had hope that my futur career would be in the music busi. "i have alwai dreamt of start a record label but now mark morrison ha spoilt that dream for me. there is no loyalti in thi busi - just greed."

but morrison is determin the album will be releas on mondai. he said: "the injunct is ludicr. "i sign a new deal with a new record compani becaus i wa not get the support i need from 2 wikid. "i wa with that label for a year and in that time releas just on record, which wa not properli promot. he ad: "the whole world is wait for thi album and it will come out on decemb 27. no injunct or judg will stop it. the mack will return." the case is set to be heard in the high court on 20 decemb.
