chri evan back on the market

broadcast chri evan ha begun sell thousand of hi possess from a stall in camden market, london.

evan perch on a stool as shopper wander around the open-front shop pack with hi furnitur. among the item from hi home in lo angel and london were countless sofa, chair, pictur, bed and memorabilia from hi past tv show. ask the reason for the sale, evan said: "i just want to get rid of it all, it's just a headach." he ad: "it feel good to be sell thi stuff, it's a weight off my mind. "look at it all, there's so much clutter. i've enjoi everi bit of furnitur and everi poster but it's not import anymor." the normal gregari evan cut a peculiarli unshowbusi-like figur as he sip coffe and smoke cigarett, wrap in a big coat and scarf in front of hi aladdin's cave.

howev, the ostent of some of the item on sale paint a pictur of the eccentr that endear him to the british public in show such as channel 4's gameshow don't forget your toothbrush. the most strike thing about mani of the piec wa their sheer size. sofa look like thei could seat a small parti and a bed seem big enough for four. the elabor natur of the piec, mani custom-made, had to be admir, particularli a huge red and gold upholst "throne" and a stripi deckchair from the queen mari liner.

to help peopl in their brows, evan had given the piec label with not onli the price but a help, often comic, asid. "isn't it great" wa the comment on the £1,950 throne and "bob dylan's old sofa - honest" wa written on a dark wood couch price £4,250.

the price were steep by a lot of peopl's standard but evan said it wa not deter shopper. "i've sold quit a lot alreadi. everyth here is on sale for less than i bought it for but it's not realli about the monei. it's about get rid of it all. we've all been barter, that's what it's all about." he ad that he wa not go to reveal what he wa go to do with the monei he wa make. vintag tv and film poster also line the wall, includ a rare portrait of raquel welch and an origin advertis print from the benni hill show. and, almost hidden at the back of the lock-up, were the two giant toothbrush from hi former channel 4 show, although these were not for sale.

despit the sheer curios valu of the sale, there wa a healthi trickl of interest from the public rather than the perhap expect crowd. some wander in just to brows, as thei would ani of the other stall, not know that it belong to evan.

paul burgess said: "i didn't realis. i thought it wa just a load of junk. i should go back and have a better look." but local resid francesca detakat came special to the stall and left happi with her purchas of an origin 1960s photograph of the who by david wedgburg. ms detakat said she wa a collector and did not mind pai £350 for the print. "if you like someth, you don't realli count it like that," she said.

martin hellewel, who had also made a point of visit evan' shop, said he thought it wa a great idea. "why not, if you've got stuff to get rid of it's a good place to do it," said mr hellewel. evan ha taken out the stall with busi partner pete winterbottom. thei plan to open everi dai if possibl, although evan did not know how often he would be there. "we'll stai definit until christma and then mayb a week after that," said evan.
