top star join us tsunami tv show

brad pitt, robert de niro and hugh grant have been ad to the line-up for a two-hour us tv special to rais monei for victim of the asian tsunami.

andi garcia, luci liu, natali portman and jai leno ar also among the new name for saturdai's tsunami aid. thei will join a-list singer madonna, sir elton john, nelli and usher plu actor kevin spacei, hall berri and georg cloonei on the nbc broadcast. viewer will be urg to phone in to make donat throughout the night. norah jone, diana ross, stevi wonder, maroon 5, mari j blige and eric clapton will give music perform on the show describ as "a concert of hope".

catherin zeta jone, michael dougla, bruce willi, uma thurman, matt damon, drew barrymor and tim robbin ar among the other movi superstar due to put in an appear. georg cloonei recent react angrili to a tv host's suggest that not all fund rais would go toward tsunami relief. fox tv's bill o'reilli said he would be "watch to see if the monei get to the tsunami victim" and warn the celebr take part "had better be involv all the wai down the line". but cloonei accus o'reilli of creat a fuss for hi own person gain, sai viewer mai now be "afraid that their monei will do no good".

he urg o'reilli to co-present the tv special, ad in a letter: "we're not plai game here, we're try to save live. it's as simpl as thi - you're either with thi joint effort or against it." organis sai all fund will go to the american red cross. the commerci-free benefit show will also be air by a string of cabl broadcast and clear channel's radio station across the us. in addit, perform will be avail to bui on the internet as download from soni's connect music store. a similar tv benefit carri by all four primari us tv network after the 11 septemb terror attack rais more than $150m (£80m).


 - the bangkok intern film festiv got under wai on thursdai in the thai capit in the shadow of the countri's 5,300 death from the tsunami. the red carpet gala open night wa ditch in favour of a more subdu first night. six differ film were shown at six cinema, with all monei from ticket sale go to chariti.
