top of the pop leav bbc on

the bbc's flagship pop music programm top of the pop is to move from bbc on on fridai to sundai on bbc two.

the new programm will combin with archiv show totp2, mix new music with footag of classic band. the corpor said the new show "aim to appeal to a divers audienc of music lover". the move is the biggest shake-up in the histori of the show, which wa first broadcast in 1964 and ha alwai been on bbc on. top of the pop wa relaunch in a blaze of public in decemb last year in an attempt to revers a long-term declin in audienc figur.

the all new top of the pop wa front by newcom tim kash and wa put togeth by produc andi peter, who wa brought back to the bbc from channel 4 to revitalis the seri.

about three million peopl a week were watch the show on fridai - less than half the total it wa attract in the mid-1990s - as the programm went up against popular itv soap coron street. but despit the relaunch audienc figur fail to rise and still remain around the three million mark. tim kash ha sinc been replac as host by fearn cotton. the new show will launch in spring next year in an extend format. bbc two control roli keat: "it's an excit new era for top of the pop. we want to make it bigger and better so that it becom the ultim pop music show for music lover of everi gener." mr keat describ bbc two as the "natur home" of top of the pop. he ad: "the addit of top of the pop will also extend bbc two's offer to younger audienc."

a bbc spokeswoman said andi peter would continu as execut produc on the show. she said that issu over the exact format of the programm and a time slot were still to be decid. the programm will have a close relationship with the bbc radio 1 chart show, which suggest the relaunch show mai be transmit at about 1900 on sundai. "hopefulli the audienc for top of the pop will find it on bbc two. "we think that the new slot will creat a buzz around the programm as for the first time viewer will discov the new of who is number on as it happen."
