littl britain vi for tv trophi

bbc hit littl britain and strictli come danc ar among numer british show nomin for the prestigi golden rose televis award.

homegrown realiti programm domin that categori, includ channel 4's supernanni and itv1's hell's kitchen. eastend and coron street were overlook in the soap categori, but doctor and famili affair gain nod. the festiv, which honour the best tv from around the globe, will take place in lucern, switzerland from 3-8 mai.

littl britain, which is now in it second seri, face competit from bbc two's the catherin tate show and sacha baron cohen's creation borat and bruno. in the separ sitcom categori, dark comedi nighti night - which began life on bbc three - will do battl with mainstream bbc on show my famili.

bbc on's strictli come danc, which saw celebr compet against each other to becom champion of the dancefloor, is among five british nomin in the varirti categori. lenni henri, who won a golden rose for hi in piec seri in 2001, pick up anoth nomin for hi recent bbc show. british televis music show have pick up six nomin, with bbc three's flashmob - the opera up against the uk music hall of fame seri, which wa screen on channel 4. british televis ha perform veri well in the art and special categori, gain a total of 11 nomin. the bbc lead the wai with it programm on the sound of music, agatha christi and rolf on art - the big event - which saw harri lead an effort to produc a life-size paint in london's trafalgar squar.

british show - which pick up a total of 48 nomin - will have to overcom competit from a host of other countri, includ the us, canada, japan and across europ. uk nomine tv diari, which is shown around the world, is own by a british compani but ha yet to be screen in thi countri. previou uk winner have includ ant & dec's saturdai night takeawai, pop idol, channel 4 show fake it and comedi duo french and saunder, who becam the first winner to receiv and honorari golden rose. individu perform will also be reward, with prize for best comic, best sitcom actor and actress and best gameshow host. last year actor shane richi won an award for hi portray of alfi moon in eastend.
