csi show give 'unrealist view'

peopl have unrealist expect of forens scienc thank to the success of the csi tv show, real expert sai.

evid submit to forens lab ha shot up as a result of the programm, at a time when mani have larg backlog, scienc investig claim. lawyer also fear the effect becaus juror have a distort view of how forens evid is us. the issu wa discuss at a major scienc confer in washington dc. crime scene investig (csi) and it spin-off, csi: miami and csi: new york, have proven exception popular with audienc on both side of the atlant.

each episod, a team of forens investig goe about solv a crime through the ingeni applianc of scienc - and the extens resourc at their dispos. "the csi effect is basic the percept of the near-infal of forens scienc in respons to the tv show," said max houck, who run a forens scienc graduat cours at west virginia univers, us. "thi tv show come on and everyon start watch it - includ the cop and prosecutor - and submiss to forens laboratori go through the roof," he told the annual meet of the american associ for the advanc of scienc (aaa). the american forens expert said there were roughli 200,000-300,000 backlog dna sampl in us lab. yet these constitut just 10% of the total test backlog, said dr houck. forens pathologist dr patricia mcfeelei said she had start to see the show's influenc in deal with the famili of victim. "what i find is that famili now ar more dissatisfi with the investig than wa previous the case," she explain. "for exampl, on televis, the toxicolog result ar avail almost instantan. but when peopl find out that it can take sever month, thei can find that veri difficult."

dr mcfeelei ad that the accuraci with which forens investig can determin time of death wa far lower than most peopl's percept. the show's influenc can follow forens investig all the wai into the courtroom, make lawyer jitteri. "prosecutor fear the csi effect with juri becaus, for exampl, thei wonder: 'why wasn't everyth test?' well, in fact, not everyth need to be test," dr houck explain. "defenc attornei also worri about the csi effect becaus thei think that juror come in and have thi view of scienc as a juggernaut; thi object method that's alwai accur." howev, he admit the show had had posit as well as neg effect on the field. "my univers cours start with four graduat in 1999; we're now the largest major on campu - with 400 student," he said. dr houck ad that there wa an urgent need for better fund of forens scienc at the univers level: "there's more monei spent in thi countri on holist medicin than there is on forens scienc research."
