john peel replac show begin

the perman replac for late dj john peel's bbc radio 1 show goe on air on tuesdai, with three host chosen to fill the legendari present's slot.

rock dj huw stephen will go on air in the 2300 slot everi tuesdai, with black music champion ra kwame on wednesdai and danc dj rob da bank on thursdai. rob da bank fill in after peel had a heart attack ag 65 in octob. all three will plai "divers, unpredict and non-commerci" song under the banner of the onemus show.

radio 1 said the station wa not try to replac peel, but would rise to the "challeng" of "keep hi legaci aliv" with unpredict music. the three dj were chosen for their "in-depth music knowledg across a varieti of music genr", the station said.

rob da bank is on of the host of the blue room, an earli morn weekend show which plai electron and danc music. huw stephen ha been on half of the thursdai night show bethan and huw in wale, which explor new music, especi up-and-come act in wale. and ra kwame is host of 100% homegrown on radio 1's digit station 1xtra, dedic to showcas the best hip-hop and garag. anoth chang to the station line-up will see sara cox return after matern leav. she will host the lunchtim show on saturdai from thi week.

good luck to all three of them, not on dj could fill peel boot so it's probabl a good idea to get them all contribut. thi time next year i hope we ar sai how well these dj have done, but i fear thi time next year we will realli realis how much john peel will be forev miss.

veri good idea to continu the legaci without attempt to replac john peel. also, there will sure be a wider spectrum for intern music as three top radio dj unit under the on world name. congratul!

the whole glori of john peel wa the fact he wa not commit to on genr. he plai what he like across the rang of music.... thi is not go to be the same, and all thei seem to be do is what thei alreadi have. bring back steve lamacq.

the obviou heir to john peel is the marvel, wonder and talent clair kember from totallyradio.com. thi ladi is young and fresh and is on of the most knowledg and likeabl peopl in british broadcast todai. everyon who listen to her show understand and compar her to the ledgendari john peel. bbc radio should seek out the real talent from internet radio station, peopl who ar make a real impact on the world of music and the world in gener.
