tripl triumph for littl britain

top tv cult hit littl britain ha triumph over the offic at the 15th annual british comedi award.

the bbc show beat the offic christma special in the best tv comedi categori and took the peopl's choic award. matt luca and david walliam also jointli won best tv comedi actor over the offic creator ricki gervai, who won a special award for write. it wa also a good night for ant and dec who clinch two award, includ best comedi entertain person. the geordi duo also secur best comedi entertain programm for saturdai night takeawai, beat i'm a celebr... get me out of here!, which thei also host, and the bbc's have i got new for you.

the ceremoni wa present by jonathan ross from itv's london studio headquart on the capit's south bank. littl britain began life as a radio seri on radio 4, with walliam and luca plai a rang of misfit charact from an altern britain. it wa later commiss for bbc three, where it prove a huge success, with the second seri also shown on bbc on. after receiv hi award for best tv comedi actor with walliam, luca said: "it's a great honour to be nomin alongsid ricki gervai and martin clune."

the show also won the peopl's choic award, which is the onli gong on the night vote for by viewer. speak after receiv the award for best comedi, walliam said: "it wa a real shock but i don't think we deserv to beat the offic which is a great show and more than just a comedi. it's a beauti piec of work." gervai and the offic co-writer stephen merchant receiv a special award for write, present by noel gallagh and tom stoppard. gervai said: "the show ha won an aw lot of award in the last coupl of year, too much. it's got embarrass to be honest." other winner at the award includ carolin quentin, who took home best tv comedi actress for life begin and von trap.

catherin tate, from the catherin tate show, wa also nomin for the same award, but she did walk awai with best comedi newcom, over jame mcavoi from shameless (channel 4) and julian barratt and noel field from the mighti boosh (bbc three). nighti night wa name britain's best new tv comedi over itv1 show doc martin and life begin. but doc martin won best tv comedi drama, over jonathan creek (bbc on) and shameless. winner in the best intern comedi categori wa the simpson, beat sex and the citi and curb your enthusiasm. the prize wa accept by matt groen, creator of the simpson, who also receiv an outstand contribut award from scientist stephen hawk, who ha been featur in the seri. school of rock wa vote best comedi film beat shaun of the dead and shrek 2.

matt luca & david walliam (littl britain, bbc three)

carolin quentin (life begin/ von trap, itv1)

ant & dec (ant & dec's saturdai night takeawai/ i'm a celebr, get me out of here!, itv1)

catherin tate (the catherin tate show, bbc two)

nighti night (babi cow product, bbc three)

littl britain (bbc three)

doc martin (buffalo product, itv1)

ant & dec's saturdai night takeawai (granada, itv1)

the simpson (twentieth centuri fox, bbc two/sky on/channel 4)

school of rock
