bbc 'should allow more scrutini'

mp have urg the bbc to give watchdog more freedom to scrutinis how £2bn in licenc fee monei is spent.

the public account committe call for the nation audit offic to be given a "free hand" to investig how the bbc offer valu for monei. although six area ar to be open up to scrutini the audit offic should have more power to choos what it investig, the mp said. the call wa made in a report into the bbc's freeview digit servic. "our aim is not to rewrit the storylin of eastend but simpli to ensur that the bbc is as account to parliament as ani other organis spend public monei," said the committe chairman, mp edward leigh. "the bbc's spend is not subject to the full independ scrutini, and account to parliament. "parliament requir televis owner to pai a licenc fee and expect the comptrol and auditor gener, on behalf of parliament, to be abl to scrutinis how that monei, over £2 billion a year, is us."

a bbc spokeswoman said: "we share the committe's interest in ensur the public monei we receiv is spent well. though in it infanc, we think the arrang with the nao ar work well and should be given time to matur." the report said the freeview digit servic ha had an "impress" take up sinc it launch but the bbc must still dispel confus about the servic. the committe found the bbc had succeed in ensur subscript-free access to digit channel follow the collaps of itv digit in 2002. but the fact that on in four home could not access freeview remain a problem.

the report said that while gap in the coverag were larg due to landscap issu, there wa need for detail explan on the freeview websit and on promot literatur as to why it wa not avail in specif area. the govern ha propos switch off of the analogu televis signal, with 2012 the most recent propos date. the bbc launch freeview in 2002 as an altern to satellit subscript servic such as sky, to allow it digit channel such as bbc three and new 24 to be seen. there have been an estim five million freeview set-top box sold sinc the launch and price have fallen consider. the corpor plan to spend up to £138m on freeview befor 2014 to ensur peopl can receiv the servic throughout the uk, and ar awar of it.
