greer attack 'bulli' big brother

germain greer ha criticis celebr big brother's "bulli" of housem after quit the realiti tv show.

she said "superior" bulli tactic, like make housem cold and hungri, could encourag playground bulli. she also condemn the "complet irrespons" of ad brigitt nielsen's former mother-in-law jacki stallon to the hous on mondai. nielsen had panick that if she react badli it could harm her access to her children, greer said. the feminist writer and broadcast said big brother had behav "like a child rather than a parent" by taunt contest john mccririck after deni him a cola drink. "i thought it wa actual demonstr the role of taunt in the playground and there ar so mani children whose live have actual been destroi by taunt in the playground," greer said. she also said that her fellow housem had public-seek "agenda".

"i had no idea who would be in here and it's wrong for me to present myself in the same context as thei ar." media observ had been surpris by greer's initi decis to join the third celebr version of the channel 4 realiti tv show, given that she ha written critic articl about the format in the past. as she pack her suitcas to leav the hous she told fellow housem: "i'm leav over specif issu, but best for everyon if i don't discuss them. "i have a problem with decis, i make them fast and when i make them, i stick to them." greer had earlier fail to persuad other contest to stage a nake protest against big brother.

other celebr to walk out of a realiti show tv includ sex pistol john lydon, former eastend actress danniella westbrook and ex-e17 singer brian harvei who all left i'm a celebr... get me out of here. previou big brother housem to leav befor their time were sunita sharma and sandi cum from the third seri of the non-celebr version of the show.

vote   wa germain greer right to leav celebr big brother?   ye  no   result ar indic and mai not reflect public opinion

happi mondai dancer bez is now 2-1 favourit to win the show, follow by blazin' squad singer kenzi at 5-2 and actor jeremi edward at 4-1. ladbrok spokesman warren lush said that the seri wa still "wide open", ad that the last 24 hour had also seen a rush of bet on mccririck slash hi odd to 8-1. dj lisa i'anson is the outsid with odd of 40-1, while jacki stallon, who join the hous on mondai, is also on of the less popular housem at 20-1. the first evict of the seri ha now been postpon after greer's exit unexpectedli reduc the number of competitor. the eight remain contest ar compet for a £50,000 prize, to be donat to the chariti of their choic, if thei surviv a seri of public vote. for everi 50p vote cast by viewer by telephon or text dure the programm's run, 9p will go to a tsunami chariti appeal.
