tv show unit angolan famili

angolan famili who ar attempt to track each other down, after be separ by nearli 30 year of war, ar succeed thank to a huge popular tv show.

meet point ha becom on of tv angola's most watch programm, and ha reunit hundr of famili. it run daili, not onli on the televis but also on the radio. everi fridai, hundr of peopl gather in luanda's independ squar to record a messag in front of the tv camera, in the hope that a lost rel will see it. mani rel have been reunit on air. "at the begin there wa an absolut explos - huge, huge crowd," sergio gera, the programm's chief co-ordin, told bbc world servic's assign programm. "now thing ar a littl calmer, there ar slightli less peopl - but, after two and a half year of broadcast, there ar still a lot of peopl go."

the media in the southern african countri, twice the size of franc, ha been grip by the quest of so mani peopl to find their rel. hundr of thousand of peopl di in angola's 30-year civil war, which final end in 2002, and ten of thousand of peopl ar still miss. mani have not heard anyth for 10 or more year - in all, 90% of angolan famili have lost someon.

the idea of record in independ squar wa model on a squar in the argentin capit bueno ari, where mother go to talk about the dead and the miss, and to exchang new. on woman, victoria lapet, found her sister - the onli remain member of her famili - in independ squar live on meet point. she had not seen her sibl for 28 year. "when we saw each other, we threw ourselv into each other's arm," she told assign. "we start to cry. i felt veri, veri happi, becaus i'd spent so long without ani famili. suddenli i had a sister again." howev, angola is on of the poorest countri in africa, and the number of peopl with access to either a televis or radio is compar few. thi mean that elsewher in the countri, the task of reunit famili li primarili with the intern committe of the red cross (icrc). in the citi of wambo, the icrc run the gazetta - a 200-page, tabloid-size book which contain 13,000 name of miss or displac.

their task is made much harder by the huge number of landmin dot around the countri. "it's veri difficult - there ar mani displac," state joaquim sahundi, head of trace in wambo.

"as thei try to go back [home], other ar try to reloc their rel. mani peopl ar get injur becaus of that - in the villag, in the bush, there ha been no clearanc of mine. "when peopl ar cross these area, thei step on mine." the icrc also us the media where it can, run four daili broadcast of their list of the miss on radio angola. meanwhil, there remain massiv challeng to angolan famili even onc thei ar reunit. "the programm of famili reunif is extrem import, but for these famili to remain reunifi, there ha to be social integr, job access, educ, healthcar," said rafael marqu of the pro-democraci georg soro foundat for southern africa. "essenti the govern is wait for the intern commun to pai for the reconstruct - that's why it ha been persist call for a donor's confer. that is just a wai of detach itself from it polit respons."
