volcano drama erupt on bbc on

supervolcano, a docu-drama about a volcan erupt in yellowston nation park in the us, is among the highlight on the bbc on thi winter.

the £178m winter schedul also includ the return of doctor who and a drama about angela can, who wa wrongli convict of kill two of her babi. sarah lancashir and timothi spall will star in the real-life drama, cherish. itv also unveil their festiv season on tuesdai, which includ stephen fry in a remak of tom brown's schooldai. supervolcano, follow in the footstep of last year's pompei, which drew 10 million viewer to bbc on in octob 2003.

the programm merg scienc, drama and comput imageri to reveal what could happen if yellowston - home to the onli current activ supervolcano in the world - were to erupt again. bbc two will run a two-part documentari, the scienc behind supervolcano, in conjunct with the transmiss. other educ highlight includ a documentari about infam mongolian warrior genghi khan and grandchild of the holocaust. grandchild of the holocaust, part of the bbc commit to holocaust memori dai, follow adrian, 13, on a journei to uncov the truth about what happen to hi grandmoth in auschwitz and belsen.

new drama includ archangel, an adapt of the robert harri best-seller, which star daniel craig on the trail of stalin's diari in communist russia. and sarah water' get her second adapt on bbc on with imelda staunton and charl danc line up to star in fingersmith. the adapt, about a conman in victorian england, will make an interest contrast to juli burchil's sugar rush - a lesbian teenag drama part of channel four's winter season. on a lighter note, jessica stevenson will star in new bbc on sitcom, the world accord to bex, pen by my famili creator fred barron and the two ronni return for a celebr of their classic comedi seri.

fry's portray of headmast dr arnold domin a mute christma schedul on itv1, which see the channel retreat from broadcast blockbust movi in favour of extend soap episod and popular quiz show.

sir paul mccartnei, wife heather mill and manchest unit manag sir alex ferguson will join a celebr edit of who want to be a millionair? on christma dai. also on christma dai, john nettl will return in a on-off edit of midsom murder, while two episod of the new miss marpl drama will air over the festiv period. film on itv1 includ gu van sant's find forrest, star sean conneri, and classic such a mari poppin, star war and the good, the bad and the ugli. in contrast, bbc's christma season includ terrestri debut of the first harri potter film, shrek and steven spielberg's ai, as well as new epipsod of the vicar of diblei and the final auf wiedersehen, pet.
