bet off after big brother 'leak'

a bookmak ha stop take bet on celebr big brother after claim "sensit inform" about the channel 4 show had been leak.

william hill made the move after four peopl tri to place bet on fridai's surpris doubl evict. "thi is highli unlik to have been an inspir guess," william hill spokesman rupert adam said. howev, a big brother spokeswoman wa "satisfi" that sensit inform about the show remain confidenti.

the bookmak said it suspicion had been arous by bet for the last two contest evict, when peopl were still try to place larg sum despit odd as short as 1/14. but william hill's "overwhelm evid" came on fridai when four unknown caller ask to place bet on the show's surpris doubl evict.

shortli afterward model capric and actor jeremi edward left the show. mr adam believ someon had gain access to figur which reveal how viewer were vote, and wa us them to predict which celebr would be evict next. "we think somebodi somewher ha got them and ha been try veri hard to take us to the cleaner," he said. the bet were not taken. mr adam did not believ anyon from channel 4 or big brother produc endemol had tri to place the queri bet. but he ad: "thei need to look at how mani peopl ar privi to the sensit inform."

big brother's spokeswoman said: "onli a hand of senior product execut ar privi to ani sensit inform regard evict vote and there ar strict procedur in place to keep thi inform strictli confidenti. "we do not feel the need to investig thi further as we ar satisfi that these measur ar effect." the show's independ adjud - the elector reform servic - wa also satisfi, she ad. the current seri of celebr big brother end on sundai, with happi mondai star bez, actress brigitt nielsen and blazin' squad rapper kenzi compet for a £50,000 chariti prize.

bookmak ladbrok said it would continu to accept bet on the final, with kenzi it favourit at 2/9. "we felt no need whatsoev to close the book," spokesman warren lush said. "we've seen absolut no suspici bet pattern." mr lush ad that peopl sometim vote on short odd "becaus thei think it's like bui monei". "you do have to risk quit a lot of monei for a veri small gain but if thei think there's no chanc of an upset thei will still do it," he said.
