three dj replac peel radio show

the late john peel's bbc radio 1 show is to be succeed in februari by three show host by three dj focus on divers, non-commerci music.

huw stephen, ra kwame and rob da bank will each host the mid-week, late-night timeslot, showcas uk talent. radio 1 said the show would not try to replac peel, but would rise to the "challeng" of "keep hi legaci aliv" with unpredict music. peel di after suffer a heart attack in peru in octob. radio 1 said the three dj had been chosen for their "in-depth music knowledg across a varieti of music genr". rob da bank ha been host the john peel show sinc the dj's death. he is also on of the host of the blue room, an earli morn weekend show that plai a mix of old and new electron and danc music. huw stephen is current on half of the radio 1 thursdai night show bethan and huw in wale, which explor new music, especi up and come act break through in wale. and ra kwame is the host of 100% homegrown on radio 1's digit station 1xtra. hi show is dedic to showcas the best of uk black music and broadcast live session, often give new artist their first chanc to perform on live nation radio.

all of the three dj will continu to host their current show on radio 1. "it is wide accept that john peel can never be replac," said the radio station. it ad that on music would support both sign and unsign talent, and said: "it will seek out those make music for music's sake rather than for commerci success. "abov all it will provid support to emerg genr of music and style that have not yet and mai never reach the mainstream."

on music is not new to radio 1 as it alreadi exist as a websit, offer advic on aspect of the music industri, such as record a demo and sign a record contract. radio 1's control, andi parfitt, said: "we believ that by have a seri of dj host a select of show under the on music titl, we will ensur that hi legaci live on." stephen said he grew up "listen to john" and that it wa a "massiv honour" to continu peel's work champion new music. the show will be broadcast from 1 februari on tuesdai, wednesdai and thursdai from 2300 gmt - 0100 gmt.
