franz ferdinand's art school lesson

scottish rock band franz ferdinand, who shot to promin in 2004, have won two brit award.

with their self-titl debut, franz ferdinand have achiev what most rock band crave - high credibl and critic acclaim while also sell stack of cd. thei have risen to the head of the uk's art rock rank with an album of song that ar catchi, creativ and origin enough to sound fresh. with a cool, spiki, fun sound previous associ with band like talk head, thei hit upon a style that had been out of fashion for a while and so wa ripe for anoth air. their first uk singl hit number three last januari, follow by two more top 20 hit, while the album ha sold more than 600,000 copi in 11 month on releas. in septemb it wa name album of the year win the prestigi mercuri music prize.

on the festiv circuit, thei have been on of the main attract for huge crowd at glastonburi, t in the park and read/leed. thei have also found success in japan, europ and the us. by septemb the album had sold 500,000 in the state and total sale were push two million worldwid. thei have been nomin for three grammi award in the us as well as the us music industri's shortlist award, but lost the shortlist prize to us band tv on the radio. nevertheless franz ferdinand were the onli uk band to win an mtv video music award thi year, take the breakthrough video crown for take me out.

the four-piec met two year ago when drummer paul thomson wa work at the glasgow art school where bassist bob hardi wa studi. singer alex kaprano wa studi english at univers but had friend at art school, and the line-up wa complet when guitarist nick mccarthi move from munich, germani, to the citi. at the turn of the year, kaprano told bbc new onlin the band were fed up with seriou band in "that post-rock thing that seem to be do it damndest to avoid ani bloodi tune".

"we want peopl to go awai from the gig hum the tune that we were sing. but at the same time bring an edg to it." franz ferdinand had a question thei ask themselv everi time thei wrote a song, kaprano said. "where's the fun in that?" thei ponder at everi stage, make enjoy the top prioriti and ensur thei did not disappear up their own muso posterior. the band start out with a dii ethic that saw them take over a disus art-deco warehous in glasgow and renam it the chateau. the venu soon becam legendari - so well-known that the polic spent a month try to find it, eventu raid it and arrest kaprano. but the charg of run an illeg bar and contraven health and safeti, fire hazard and nois abat law were drop.

the band took over an abandon victorian courtroom and jail instead, and name that the chateau. the buzz about the band soon spread around the music industri and 40 record label turn up to on gig in glasgow - which the band thought wa "total ridicul". "i'm realli glad it wa almost comic becaus we weren't overwhelm by the serious of it," kaprano said. thei sign with independ label domino, home of smog, sebadoh and four tet, in june 2003.
