fightstar take to the stage

charli simpson took hi new band fightstar to the stage on fridai night, just hour after offici announc hi departur from pop band bust.

he wa greet by a sell-out crowd at the univers of warwick. confirm of bust's long-rumour split had come earlier in the dai, when simpson held a press confer in london with bandmat matt willi and jame bourn. all three band member stress that the break up wa amic, although bourn admit he wa "devast" to hear of simpson's departur. "thi ha been a realli difficult decis," 19-year-old simpson reveal, "i hope the fan will understand."

while simpson declar he would look back with pride on bust's enorm success, hi focu turn immedi to fightstar, with fridai's press confer coincid with the start of the band's 13-date tour of the uk. fuell by thi new, all 1,400 ticket to see charli's first post-bust live appear - at the univers of warwick's student union - sold out rapidli. mike eccleshal, the venu's promot coordin, said: "ticket had been sell strongli over the past few dai, but sale went mad after the new broke. we had complet sold out by 4pm."

with queue outsid the venu long and expect high, the pressur wa on fightstar to impress. although mani dedic fan travel to the gig from around the countri, thei face a tough crowd made up chiefli of student, the averag ag of the audienc far exceed that of ani bust concert. gone were the scream girl to which simpson had becom accustom. support act brigad, front by simpson's brother, plai a short set first and were met with gener approv. when fightstar eventu took to the stage around 11pm, howev, a riotou cheer easili drown out ani heckler lurk in the crowd.

unfortun, the band were initi hinder by technic teeth problem as simpson's guitar amplifi fail to work. as sound technician rush to fix it, other band member did their best to improvis. when thei eventu got under wai, fightstar's blend of emotion charg rock wa warmli receiv. far heavier and less commerci than bust's chart-top pop-punk, the band will undoubtedli appeal to a more matur fan-base. warwick student helen clutterbuck admit: "i came to check out fightstar becaus of all the controversi. "i've never heard them befor, but i'm pretti impress." less impress were fellow student ryan crabb and gordon renni, who observ, "with fightstar, charli ha clearli progress from bust's sound, but thei're still not veri inspir." fightstar plai for around 45 minut, showcas materi from their forthcom ep call thei like you better when you were dead, due for releas in februari.
