ten-year tragedi of miss manic

richei edward, guitarist and lyricist for the manic street preacher, vanish 10 year ago, on 1 februari 1995. hi disappear remain on of the most tragic mysteri in rock music.

for hi devot fan, richei edward wa an inspir and inspir poet, a man who articul their desper and despair, who shout the thing most kept hidden. the manic street preacher mai onli have becom stadium-conquer rock giant sinc hi disappear - but edward wa the figurehead for their first, danger and dazzl incarn. edward did not featur in the origin line-up of the band, though. singer/guitarist jame dean bradfield, bassist nicki wire and drummer sean moor were origin accompani by a rhythm guitarist call flicker. but edward replac flicker in time for the band's self-financ debut, suicid allei, after design the record's artwork.

after becom a full-time member, edward becam a critic part of the band, write lyric and plai guitar - though in mani concert, he wa not actual plug in. but the fierc intellig edward - who name-check writer such as sylvia plath, georg orwel and philip larkin - battl depress, alcohol problem, eat disord, and self-harm. by the time the band releas their third album, the holi bibl, in octob 1994, edward had been admit to hospit with depress. but in hi last interview a few month later, seem to be make plan for the futur.

edward walk out of the embassi hotel in london in the earli morn, ahead of the band's us tour to promot the holi bibl. in the follow dai, polic issu a miss person alert and hi parent, graham and sherri, plead for their son to let them know he is safe and well.

polic discov edward' car in a car park near the severn bridg near bristol - a notori suicid spot. the discoveri lead mani to believ he ha kill himself. the rest of the band stop tour and record.

the band plai their first concert sinc edward' disappear as a trio, perform support slot for the stone rose on their uk stadium tour.

the manic street preacher releas their first music sinc edward' disappear. a design for life reach number two in the uk singl chart. the album everyth must go follow.

the manic win best band and best album for everyth must go at the brit award.

a fan sai she saw edward in the hippi resort of goa, india. interpol ar alert but do not track him down.

graham and sherri edward fly to the spanish island of fuerteventura six week after report a man fit their son's descript ha been seen in a bar call underground. the report come to noth.

edward' sister rachel make an emot tv appeal five year after the disappear. "i'd just like to sai to him if he is abl to listen that we do love him veri much and we'd like him to come back - me, mum and dad," she said.

the band plai a concert in the cuban capit, havana - the first contemporari western rock band to plai there.

on the seventh anniversari of hi disappear, polic offer edward' parent the opportun to sign a death certif. thei refus. the big issu magazin, which support homeless chariti, print the last known pictur of edward in a fresh plea for inform.

a pair of trainer contain human bone wash up on the bank of the river severn have no link to edward, polic sai.

the last song written by edward - a song call judg y'self, which wa to have been us for the judg dredd film soundtrack - is releas on the b-side compil lipstick trace. a skeleton found by the river severn is not edward, test reveal.

the manic' seventh studio album, lifeblood, featur a song dedic to edward call cardiff afterlif.

the remain manic street preacher member continu to pai a quarter of the band's royalti into an account held in hi name.
