mogul wilson back uk rap band

toni wilson, the music mogul who establish the influenti factori record in the 1980s, is to launch a new label - convinc he ha discov hi "third major band".

factori were the label of both joi divis - who becam new order after singer ian curti commit suicid - and the happi mondai. now wilson believ rap act raw t - sign to hi f4 label, the fourth incarn of factori - will "complet the hat-trick". "suddenli, when raw t came into my life, i realis thei ar my third major band," he told bbc world servic's the music biz programm. the group ar set to releas their first singl on 21 februari, and follow it up with an album, realis and wit, in march.

wilson ha twice tri to resurrect factori - which last for 14 year befor fold - but conced these effort had been "despond and dismal experi". but it ha not put him off. "of all the thing i do in my life the most excit thing i've ever done, and the thing i have most love, is be part of a record compani," he ad.

"the idea of work with brilliant young musician, and be close to the centr of popular cultur, is just the biggest thrill in my life." wilson explain how hi son persuad him to go and see raw t, but he had initi been reluct sai he "detest" young british peopl rap. "it's alwai inauthent, it's alwai crass, it never realli work for me," he said. "i went to see thi group, raw t - which stand for realis and wit talent - and like everyon els in the room that night, we were utterli blown awai." wilson believ raw t could be "to f4 as joi divis were to factori record".

the stori of factori record - which also own the legendari hacienda club in manchest - wa told in the michael winterbottom film 24 hour parti peopl, in which wilson wa plai by steve coogan.

wilson stress that the independ music scene remain "as import" as it had been dure the 1980s, when label such as factori and rough trade prolifer. he point out that franz ferdinand and the white stripe - "perhap the two most import band sinc the millennium" - were sign to indi. "i think that is a reflect of how us and how power the indi philosophi is, and how band prefer it," he ad. "thei can make more monei that wai - it's a more gener relationship, and also it's a more understand relationship. "i think independ ar in a wonder posit at thi moment in time."
