deal to ban 'homophob' regga

the regga industri is to refus to releas or stage concert featur homophob song under a global deal struck with gai right group.

a damag campaign against star such as beeni man and sizzla ha been wage over lyric that allegedli call for gai peopl to be kill or assault. the campaign, which led to gig be scrap and a uk polic investig, will now be drop under the truce. brett lock of gai group outrag! said thei were "wipe the slate clean". the protest had been led by the stop murder music coalit, an umbrella group includ outrag!, the black gai men's advisori group and jamaican movement j-flag.

that coalit ha reach a verbal agreement with major dancehal regga record label and concert promot cover eight of the scene's biggest star. but the artist themselv were not involv in the negoti and have not directli sign up. instead, the record compani have pledg not to releas or re-releas ani offens song - mani of which date back a number of year. and it is believ promot will make star agre not to perform such tune on stage. "the regga industri will work with the artist while still maintain their freedom of speech and artist freedom," accord to media and pr strategist glen yearwood, who is repres the regga industri.

the industri would halt ani attempt by an artist to perform or releas a song incit violenc against ani group or gender, he said. "we'll advis them thi is not the wai forward in a civilis societi." the stop murder music campaign saw protest picket gig, result in sizzla's uk tour be cancel in novemb, forc mobo award organis to drop artist from nomin and saw beeni man drop from an mtv show in august. polic have also been investig whether lyric incit the assault and murder of gai peopl. the campaign wa a blow to the regga industri, mr yearwood admit. "if you can't have major star tour, then you don't sell mani album," he said.

but the artist - beeni man, sizzla, eleph man, buju banton, bounti killer, tok, capleton and vybz kartel - will not have to apologis for past song or comment. outrag!'s mr lock said: "the main player in the dancehal regga industri will attempt to regul the industri themselv to ensur that there aren't ani violent homophob or gai-bash lyric in the futur. "as a gestur of good faith, the stop murder music coalit ha agre to suspend our aggress campaign against murder music. "so we shall not be picket concert or call for prosecut to give the industri the space to regul and reform itself." record compani vp and greensleev, distributor jet star and concert promot includ jammin and apollo entertain ar all on board.
