scissor sister triumph at brit

us band scissor sister led the winner at the uk music industri's brit award, walk off with three prize. the flamboy act score a hat-trick in the intern categori, win the best group, best album and best newcom award. glasgow group franz ferdinand won two prize, as did kean and joss stone, who wa vote best urban act by digit tv viewer. robbi william' angel wa name the best song of the past 25 year. scissor sister frontwoman ana matron collect the best intern album prize from singer siouxsi sioux. she told the audienc: "if you told us a year ago we would be get these award todai we would have call you crazi. you gui made our dream come true."

the band - whose self-titl lp wa 2004's biggest-sell album - thank "all the member of the sisterhood", ad: "we wouldn't be here without you." the us band, who open the show with take your mama, won the best intern act and newcom award, as well as best intern album.

franz ferdinand, who were shortlist in five categori, won best rock act and best british group, an award thei dedic to late dj john peel. but thei miss out on best british live act, which went to muse. kean won best british album and breakthrough act. will young won the best singl prize for your game. mcfly won the best pop act prize, and gwen stefani pick up the best intern femal artist award. eminem won the male prize.

best british male artist winner mike skinner - aka the street - doe not usual attend award ceremoni, but the birmingham hip-hop artist perform hi hit dry your ey at the ceremoni. howev, he did not collect hi prize. a bandmat inform the crowd skinner wa "in the toilet". after beat ami winehous, jamelia, natasha bedingfield and pj harvei to the best british femal prize, joss stone said: "i don't know what to sai. i don't like do thi at all. i'd like to thank my famili for be realli support and everybodi that made my record with me." "i don't even know what to do right now. thank you all you gui for vote for me, i feel sick right now." viewer of digit music tv channel mtv base vote stone the winner in the best urban act categori.

littl britain comedi duo matt luca and david walliam present the best song prize to robbi william dress as hi former take that colleagu gari barlow and howard donald, lead him to quip he wa "alwai the talent man of the band".

william' track beat song by will young, queen, kate bush and joi divis in a vote by bbc radio 2 listen to mark 25 year of the uk music industri ceremoni. it is hi 15th brit award, have alreadi receiv 10 solo award and four with take that. he told the audienc: "i'm just amaz that my career keep go." kean frontman tom chaplin thank fan for endur "rubbish gig" after thei won the british breakthrough act prize. he ad: "a lot of peopl don't think it's cool that we've had the gut to be ourselv but it's a vital part of who we ar as a band and receiv thi is recognit of that."

natasha bedingfield - in the run for best british femal and best pop act - perform with her brother daniel for the first time at wednesdai's event.

the chart-top sibl duet on the chaka khan hit ain't nobodi. meanwhil, joss stone perform right to be wrong back by a gospel choir, while lemar and jamelia perform the robert palmer track addict to love. bob geldof won a prize for hi outstand contribut to music. of the 15 brit award for achiev in 2004, 10 were won by artist tip in the bbc new websit's sound of 2004 list of artist to watch, publish at the start of last year. scissor sister, franz ferdinand, kean, joss stone and mcfly were all in the sound of 2004 top 10. the other five brit winner were alreadi establish befor sound of 2004 wa compil. the ceremoni will be televis on itv1 on thursdai.



i'm speechless. best song of the last 25 year? yeah right.

i veri much doubt that 'angel' wa even the best song of the week that it came out. like everi track robbi ha releas as a singl, it's a blatant but poor facsimil of someth that someon els ha done better befor.

give us a break...!!!

best song in 25 year, you must be joke. it good if you like that sort of thing, but realli!

listen to angel on radio 1 thi morn when i wa drive into work. had not heard it for a while. i love rob voic, the lyric and tune. perfect!

as usual, the public have short memori when it come to vote for "the greatest". there must be more than a dozen song in the last 25 year that deserv thi award more. it's not exactli groundbreak. presum, the ag rang that could be bother to vote is is pretti low...

i'm actual embarrass to be british if that is the best song we have produc in the last 25 year!!

what about the special - ghost town, the buzzcock - ever fallen in love with someon... happi mondai - kinki afro, mcalmont & butler - ye, joi divis - love will tear us apart... angel is middl-of-the-road rubbish.

angel is a aw piec of sentiment claptrap. it's music and lyric inept; and fantast overr, a bit like mr william himself. thi result isn't veri surpris though, the brit ha a long histori of celebr rubbish music!

best of the last 25 year? mayb. cun to make the timescal not includ stairwai to heaven or bohemian rhapsodi, but it doe kind of make it a bit of a hollow award realli. not much competit in the last 25 year after all.

it's alright for a pop song - but the best song of the last 25 year???

there is no wai on earth that song should have been vote the best of the last 25 year....it's a travesti.

rubbish! who vote it for it to be includ in ani list? i am a regular listen to radio 2 but i don't recal the invit to vote for thi bland, slushi rubbish which might appeal to the mass who wouldn't know a good song if it jump up and bit them on the nose but is certainli not the best song of the last 25 year. how depress and just when we thought manufactur 'pop' wa on the wai out - where on earth did thi dread list appear from?

while i am biass in that i thought love will tear us apart should have won, in all serious, i think that the best song of the last 25 year should not includ song less than 5 year old as that would exclud song which ar popular becaus of novelti. then again, well done robbi, good show.

you've got to be kid.

angel is a great song, but not the best song of the last 25 year. onli the best song to be up for nomin at the brit.

i think angel is a great song and deserv to be in the run up for thi award but i don't think it the best song from the past 25 year! right enough, it is better than some of the other in thi catergori, for exampl, what wa will young do be nomin in the first place - he is alright but the song isn't that good! i'm happi for robbi himself though!

best song in the last 25 year? what a joke! think of all the great rock and pop song releas in the 80s and pretti much all of them ar better than angel. phil collin doesn't deserv award for all the good song he wrote? angel is an overr song, that got tiresom even befor you had finish listen to it. soppi rubbish at best. hopefulli manufactur rubbish will die down soon, and let the real artist who work hard for there glori receiv award.

so boringli obviou and typic of the bland natur of mainstream music in britain todai, for me it's proof that music and democraci just don't mix. still, at least it wasn't will young...

oh it's all just a bit of fun. peopl take these award too serious! robbi ha million of loyal fan, while even non-fan know the word to angel. him win obvious reflect who vote in these award. person i want will young to win, but that wa not realli due to hi music talent!

i hate the song, all it bring back is memori of school disco and no-on to slow-danc with!

i agre about angel. i never get fed up hear it. whenev the song come on the radio i turn the radio up, smile and sing along (veri badli, that is why the radio ha to be turn up to drown my voic out). the song make me calm and seren and happi. well done robbi.

i think that although robbi william is a good perform, that angel isn't realli that good a song. it certainli isn't anywher near as good as love will tear us apart by joi divis or wuther height by kate bush.

angel is a fantast song. all credit to robbi william and gui chamber. it's a song that will be plai forev and bridg all ag group.

robbi did in no wai deserv that mantl. whenev we have these award it is alwai 'artist' from the past five year that seem to win the best of the best...we forget about the late 80s and earli 90s for exampl. thei weren't cool at the time, but becaus thei ar cool again now show that the song have greater longev than peopl think.

ye angel is the best song sinc the past 25 year, becaus it touch the soul as it carri a lot of mean.

i've alwai dislik angel intens. i believ it to be symbol of the gener capac of british pre-teen, teen and middl ag women to accept low qualiti/ low aspir music as "classic" songwrit. it's 'orribl. it seem obviou to me that peopl who like robbi ar peopl who don't particularli like music all that much. folk without collect; folk who have never engag in that mad on experi when fall under the spell of pop music. angel add noth - it is mere an irrit distract - a wasp that refus to go awai on a summer's afternoon picnic. what a dread result. if you vote for it - you should feel asham of yourself - you probabl onli know a dozen song or so don't you - so where do get off appli thi uninform filter and cast thi ridicul vote. booo hisss

angel, best song? you ar kid, right? last five year i might be will to accept, but 25, no wai. did whoever vote for thi actual have ani music knowledg prior to, sai, 1995? realli quit insult to the british music industri of the past quarter of a centuri.

no surpris about robbi william consid the list. where on earth did the nomin list come from???? compil by an eleven year-old girl perhap?? i mean, will young? come on.

what a load of crap, best song in the last 25 year - i don't think so!! what about all the real artist out there over the last 25 year - the list is endless, but robbi william doesn't even come close.

what a joke. that song ha becom such a bane to me that i have develop a pavlovian respons to the word 'angel' where i thrash around, and scream "no no no no no" until someon tell me "the radio's off". why a half-bake cheesi ditti like angel, which ha becom the anthem for million of romant sop (think how mani time it wa sung on pop idol for exampl, and by whom), should be vote the best song of the past 25 year, is beyond me. if thi is the song against which all other ar judg, then musician mai as well give up.

why do we reward mediocr so highli in thi countri?? the initi list wa veri weak anywai, but angel the best song of the last 25 year!!!! i think not, i didn't realiz radio 2 had so mani listen under the ag of 10!!

peopl have such short memori! a great song ye, but the best of the last 25 year? not a chanc. i think the person as oppos to the song ha been vote for here.

the great british public at work again. it's a mediocr, sentiment and safe song. grant, it's not too bad, either. but can it stand up against anyth by the smith (in particular "how soon is now?") or anyth from the stone rose' first album? nope.

no, becaus i'm not femal and i'm not 10!

ok i like robbi and angel is a decent song. but it is no wai the best song of the past 25 year! the shortlist wasn't great but him win it is a joke!

predict and laughabl.

the success of angel at thi year brit reflect poorli on the state of british music over the last 25 year. the british public ar brainwash by the corpor pulp that is presnet to them as cut edg music and true talent is be sadli miss. whilst angel is a popular song it is not even the best song in robbi's repertoir never mind best song of the last 25 year.

i am a huge robbi fan and love that song. but i think there ar a lot more outstand song / music out there that influenc music todai, unfortun thei were left out of the list.

have radio 2 listen even heard of joi divis? a band who, through two album, have had a bigger impact on music, and continu to do so, over the last 25 year than robbi william ever will.

no doubt about it. there's not a song done by anyon with more emot and feel. some peopl will adopt their slightli snobbi stanc, but angel ha hit home with a far larger audienc than ani other song.

it should have been joi divis.those gui have plai an influenti part in shape modern dai music while angel remain yet anoth pop song. i sincer do not believ that in 25 year from now, the most influenti artist will argu that robbi william inspir their art in the wai that the byrd, the beatl and nick drake have done for music todai.

ye!! i think it a brilliantli written song with differ mean to differ peopl. there were other great song in the categori... but somebodi had to win! robbi wa a deserv winner.

i am astound that such a second-rate record ha beaten such a line up of amaz song! it's a terribl song, vote for by the mass who don't have the brain to appreci innov and excit music.

the best song of the past 25 year? realli? come on, thi is sure a joke? no? i think i need a long lie down...

it just goe to show that the british public do not have a clue about good qualiti music when thei pick robbi william over the beautifulli talent kate bush and joi divis. i suppos it's confirm on thing - the british public ar consist dull :- &lt;(

no offenc robbi, but pleeeas! there must be a thousand better song than a formul cheesi pop song for kid. no on agre with thi and quit frankli it is an embarass to the integr of british music, and a further nail in the coffin!

i think robbi deserv it, he ha been the most icon of ani star we have had in britain sinc john lennon and is an idol to million worldwid. anybodi who sai he doesn't deserv it is jealou of hi success. the onli real challeng wa queen but hei, anoth on bite the dust!!

obvious all the karaok singer in the uk vote for it.

if thi is the best song of the last 25 year then the british music industri is in troubl. sure robbi is talent and produc excel materi, but thi is not the best record.

a sad dai for music

it's not the type of music i normal like, but even as a diehard rock fan, i recognis that it is a good song and appela to most peopl. that's why it ha been vote best song of the last 25 year. it's a good all-rounder. just like robbi.

best song in 25 year? sinc 1980? i'm confus. "angel" isn't a bad song. it's a nice, catchi, formula anthem that tick all the box. but thi is not great music. if anyth it's regress. bland even. i suppos it's just more evid of how redund the brit award have becom.

grant angel is a good song, howev it realli wasn't up against ani other proper competit. the queen's song wa lacklust, and apart from kate bush, the other choic were pathet! also, why weren't the stone there, david bowi, etc, there ar so mani greater song than angel...i wonder if it wa simpli the fact that robbi wasn't get more award so thei had to make on up for him!

best song of the last 25 year? what a ridiculu concept, and an even more ridicul winner. sigh. on the upsid, at least it wasn't bohemian rhapsodi, for which we should all be thank.

angel is without doubt a great song but i realli don't think it deserv the titl of best song in 25 year.perhap the vote had more to do with teenag opinion on robbi' goodlook than the actual song!!! don't get me wrong, i'm not disput hi look, but there ar more deserv winner.

it would have been a travesti had angel not won. without angel, robbi william mai well not be where he is now, and britain would have been depriv of on of it most charismat and talent perform artist. it ha to be seen perform live, with 125,000 peopl sing along to be fulli appreci. well done rob.

i find it hard to believ that 'angel' is the best we have to show for the past 25 year! i'm rapidli redifin 'best' in my own head now to mean 'most gratuit plai at wed and funer becaus peopl think it ha deep mean'. what about britpop? blur, oasi, sued, pulp... not onli make fantast song but also make chang, do someth differ. why must 'best' alwai come down to most commerci popular?

i've noth against robbi, i actual like hi music, but how can thi possibl be the best song from the last 25year? the brit ha prove to be noth more than a bargain tool between the pop mogul to boost band profil and record sale. the same goe with the scissor sister, i think thi is a superb record and thoroughli deserv the newcom award, but the album come no where near u2's new record, neither ar thei in the same leagu. onc again there have been some baffl discis made, thei ar not for artis reason, but for profit.

no surpris realli, it's vote for by the gener public. sinc when did thei have tast in music?

person i find angel by robbi william to be on of the most irrit song i have ever heard!

it absolut deserv to win. it is a song that ha unit the gener and will continu to be plai for mani year to come.

it's an absolut joke, howev most of the origin 25 were veri poor choic as well. all in all a pretti pointless exercis !

the song is overplai and oversentiment. out of the rather poor five choic that were left, it should have gone to either joi divis or queen. i suppos we should be thank that it didn't end up in the hand of will young though.

although it ha nostalgia valu, there is no wai it deserv to win. everybodi know the word to bohemian rhapsodi, noth compar 2 u, etc. much better song and more timeless. give it to someon with real talent.

although angel is a good song i think that anyon with the slightest music tast will realis that thi is not the best song of the last 25 year. thi is just anoth exampl of record compani manipul to keep an artist in the public ey. why not give him an award for the greatest pair of trouser if that's all it mean!
