jamelia's return to the top

r&b star jamelia had three brit nomin to go with her tripl triumph at last year's mobo award.

the birmingham-born singer, full name jamelia davi, wa sign to a record label at the ag of 15 and releas her first singl so high at 18. she releas four number on from her 2000 album drama, includ the top five hit monei featur the vocal of regga artist beeni man. she rack up five mobo nomin in 2000, win on for best video. but in the same year she also fell pregnant and decid to take a break from music to bring up her daughter teja, who wa born in march 2001. while she origin plan to get back to work pretti swiftli after give birth it wa actual two year befor she releas anoth singl. dure her absenc r&b music explod and a whole host of femal artist were on the scene, mean jamelia had to onc again prove herself. her comeback song bout featur rah digga onli just scrap into the top 40.

it wa her next singl, superstar, that realli put her back on the map as on of britain's most popular femal r&b singer, hold her own in a music scene domin by us artist such as beyonc and ashanti.

superstar wa follow by thank you, winner of best singl at the 2004 mobo, which reach number two in the uk chart. the autobiograph song, which deal with domest abus, hit number on in new zealand and australia. next came the song see it in a boi's ey, which wa especi written for her by coldplai's chri martin. hi involv with the song meant not onli wa it given massiv public but it wa also greet favour by a new audienc who would not usual listen to r&b. she now combin sing with model and support chariti includ the nspcc and make trade fair. despit her huge success in recent year, jamelia remain down-to-earth about her fame and her chanc of last in the fickl music busi, partli due to motherhood. "when i first got into the industri, i'd be awai from home for month at a time. but now i have other thing in my life. i still want to make it, but it's not the end of the world if i don't," comment jamelia.
