cult band kasabian surg forward

indi danc band kasabian built up a cult follow throughout 2004 to secur three brit award nomin.

the four-piec leicest band blend dark electron with rock, earn kasabian place on the best british group, rock act and live act shortlist. thei have also earn a reput as outspoken and charismat, in contrast to fellow brit nomine such as kean and snow patrol. "british music need a kick up the ars and britain need a new band to breath life into the british peopl again," declar kasabian's singer tom meighan.

"no-on's do it at the minut. music feel like it's in the afterlif right now. we don't want peopl to give up on it. "the serpent's go to rise from the sea and scare all the pirat awai!" meighan grew up in leicest with kasabian songwrit/guitarist sergio pizzorno and bassist chri edward, a trio which began make music from the ag of 17.

thei enlist guitarist and keyboard player christoph karloff after spot him in a pub. "we saw hi long sideburn and thought 'hei, he look the part, we'll ask him,'" said meighan. inspir by britpop and a mutual love of hardcor, an earli 1990s genr that fuse hous music with hip hop beat and a dark sensibl, thei ad an electron element to the tradit guitar sound. "we got a comput and we cut rock'n'roll up, becaus there's no point in go back to how it wa," said meighan. "it's all about new idea and creativ."

the band's origin approach is reflect in it name, inspir by linda kasabian - the getawai driver of us serial killer charl manson. coincident it is also the armenian term for "butcher". kasabian move into a remot farmhous in rutland to record their debut album, benefit from it isol but also manag to sneak in a few parti while thei were there. sign to the rca record label, kasabian test the water with two singl, club foot and lsf, which reach number 19 and 10 in the uk singl chart respect.

thei built up their follow on the summer festiv circuit, open both glastonburi and t in the park, and at a seri of "guerilla gig" at unusu venu includ half time orang, a pub next to leicest citi footbal club's headquart. kasabian's self-titl album wa releas last septemb to widespread critic acclaim, it indi danc stanc draw comparison to the stone rose, primal scream and the happi mondai.

regard it as "both a fieri assert of rock 'n' roll ethic and proof that a sieg mental is aliv and well in the badland of rutland water", the nme's prais wa typic of the album's recept. as 2004 progress kasabian would score a further two hit - process beat and cutt off - and embark upon a well-receiv uk tour. "we take our music serious, definit, but we want to have fun with it," said pizzorno. "thi is not a job to us," ad meighan. "thi is the best life we could ever have. thi is what it's all about and without it we'd be lost soul. but music need us as well."
