brit debat over 'urban' music

joss stone, a 17-year-old soul singer from devon, beat dizze rascal, jamelia, lemar and the street to win best british urban act at the brit award. her victori ha reignit the debat about what urban music is.





i'm not realli comfort with the word urban. it's a word that's been manufactur in thi countri and america to describ black music. the word urban seem to cover such a broad rang of black music that it's wrong. how far ar the brit remov from inner-citi music and what peopl ar do? it's so far remov that i don't expect them to get it bang on. the music industri isn't champion music from our particular genr veri well anywai. peopl don't feel like that's anyth to do with us. i don't feel like urban music's just been celebr by [joss stone] win or her be nomin, or by the brit acknowledg that there's an urban music scene becaus it's all a kick in the teeth at the end of the dai. it's not realli relev. if joss stone is the closest thing that thei feel comfort champion becaus of what she look like and how she sound and who she's sign to, then so be it. it's got noth to do with what's realli go on.



urban as a genr is veri broad. if you look underneath urban, there ar a number of core element that includ hip-hop, r&b, garag and into that obvious come soul. joss stone is a soul artist. her first album wa call the soul session. so urban is a veri broad brushstrok that is the umbrella over the top of sub-genr, and there ar offshoot of all of those. joss stone ha had amaz success [in the us] given that she's a uk artist. what ha realli captur everybodi's imagin is that here you have a 17-year-old from devon with a voic to die for and a bunch of realli, realli good tune and she look good - i think that's what's done it.

the award for best british urban act wa vote for by viewer of mtv base.



i don't think joss wa not a worthi winner. she make soul music and that definit come under the categori of what we describ as urban. the fact that she's from devon is the interest thing becaus most of the music we cover is made in larg citi and she's liter rural. the great thing about urban music is that there's a big rang. if there is some sort of root with black music or danc music in britain, i think that's where you can call it urban - that's where thi new sub-categori, or uber-categori, ha come from. joss stone is certainli not old enough to have had some of the experi of an older soul singer, but you couldn't argu that she wa be inauthent with her emot - it is come from somewher genuin. it ha to come across as real. that's the onli cut-off point we have here and that's the onli wai by which we judg peopl.



what urban mean to us as an organis is the polit correct term to describ music which origin from a black background. music should becom inclus and if we ar fight for a multi-cultur britain, then we should be fight for inclus rather than exclus. if joss stone can be accept within the urban music commun, i think act from other ethnic do classic music and rock should be accept too. race doesn't make a differ if everyon is includ. out of all the award dish out yesterdai, i'm still try to find out what peopl of other race receiv ani sort of recognit or award.



a type of music (especi street music) that origin from a citi, and typic reflect or is characterist of urban life.

she might not be urban, but when did r&b becom the hip hop taint thing it is now? r&b stand for rhythm and blue, rememb!

that joss stone is rubbish is certain. if anyon deserv to win an award for urban music (i think probabl should includ hip-hop, soul & funk at least but not rock or pop) thi year it the street, although dizze rascal stake a good claim

she definit deserv to win a prize, joss stone's album ar quit simpli amaz, easili better than anyth els that wa releas last year. thi whole debat about what is urban, what isnt urban is complet pointless and probabl fuel by urban artist who weren't nomin or didn't win. i cant see why peopl can't just congratul her for the talent that she is.

she did deserv it, but i agre with the comment about urban music. it a stupid phrase, and particularli british. in the state thei tend to us hip hop and r&b, if i sai hip hop here a lot of peopl have no idea what i'm talk about. veri strang.

what's in a name? a rose by ani other name etc... if peopl want to call it urban, why not? if we realli analys it, the term 'danc music' is mislead becaus it doesn't describ everyth you can danc to.

whilst i agre that the term 'urban' is open to interpret, it strike me as simpli weird that joss stone ha won. 'urban' to me is what i hear be plai in parti in the inner citi - i live in brixton and have never heard the soul session pump out of of a bass heavi sound system in ani parti i've been to. good luck to joss stone, let's celebr her victori - let's also question why, with artist so success and talent as jamelia, lemar, kany west, dizze rascal, alicia kei and outkast - we didn't see a singl black artist on stage collect an award.

so, what you're sai is that ani music that ha black heritag is not allow to be sung by anyon who isn't black. and, if it is, then thei shouldn't be acknowledg for it even if thei're pretti dam good at it? she's 17, ha an amaz voic, and won. good on her. oh, but she's not "black" well, let's make her feel real bad about it then. how dare she! though hang on, didn't the so-call 'public' vote on thi on?

thi idea of pigeonhol whatev is popular at the time is no differ than what wa happen in the 1940s and 50s in relat to what "jazz" wa. the media then call anyth that had a swing beat, syncop melodi or soul feel "jazz", much to the chagrin of the artist. it would mean that "blue" would be put in the same mould as "bebop", "cool" and "ragtim", all veri differ style at that time. jazz wa and remain such a massiv misunderstood term. and so what of "urban" music? in truth it's a lazi term to categoris music that you don't realli understand. soul and garag ar world apart music (marvin gay v tuff jam?), but no doubt have their connect. if we just let the music speak for itself and not judg the success of an artist by the number of award won, then mayb we can enjoi the music for what it is, rather than what it repres.

i demand a prize for rural music! suck to the citi- it's wai better out here. we have hai, for on thing.

exclud her from what ha becom known as urban music would be as bad as exclud lenni kravitz or hendrix from rock music for be black sure? i dont understand the point that ty is make. if lemar, who make music which is less soul than joss' work won, he might have said noth. (btw i'm black too)

how can she be "urban" if she spent most of her life in the devon countrysid? nonsens.

i love joss to bit and don't care what her brand is - it's amaz music, full stop. stop pute it all in bracket and let's just call it music, and let's especi drop the black / urban tag - nearli all music came from black origin, thi just set an exampl that it is ok to pigeonhol peopl and their music by their colour.

sure the point of have an urban music categori is simpli to acknowledg artist that ar make what is (histor) consid urban music, irrelev of the colour of their skin, or where thei origin from. joss stone is simpli sing a certain type of music that can be consid urban in style, just as someon from an inner citi, and inde not from the usa could sing countri music. if that person wa good at it and authent in sound, would we criticis it be refer to as countri music or the artist for repres that style?

the term urban in refer to a music genr in uk ha develop, in part, from the controversi surround the brand of the mobo award. the veri term 'music of black origin' ha confus and offend mani peopl. thi is particularli strang given the exist of the asian music award. it appear that the us of 'black' or 'white' in relat to music make peopl feel uncomfort. the term 'urban' therefor, ha been invok to sidestep the debat of which type of music came first 'black' or 'white' therebi render the issu colourblind. the result is now a redund new debat as to what 'urban' also mean. perhap we should have creat a new term altogeth to describ the variou strain of soul/rnb and hip-hop, on which doe not also mean someth els - as we have done with 'crunk'.

urban is just a word that's come about recent to describ "black" music that's becom popular now. the word wasn't even in us, or common us five of six year ago. it's just a wai of the industri clump it all togeth without have to call it black music, becaus some peopl ar oversensit and might call them racist for it.

i'm in a band that ha been call "urban", and i despis the label. i'd hate to think i belong to ani neat market nich, becaus that's all it is. ever sinc the music channel and record comapni tri to fractur what thei consid 'music of black origin', these label have been us to undermin the statu of good music into a commod. look at all the tv broadcast, unabl to reach young peopl without condesend, thei simpli plai some 'urban' music on the soundtrack as if it some dread cheap lift music. ignor the label, it is what it is, just music.

as a black man, i think i agre with some of the statement at least the statement made by the kei execut. black peopl should lead the music thei invent . we should stop call a genr meaningless, north is meaningless. the real question is would joss stone would have been that success do the music she wa do if she were black? same thing, with street, ami winehous, etc. who's ever heard of terri walker or rhian benson.. thei ar both 10 time better than joss stone and both of them have won urban music award and i think mobo , but why not brit????

so what if joss stone won the urban award. her music is great soul and sure that is under the 'urban' banner? what if the street had won? would peopl be whine becaus mike skinner is white... it seem that a lot of the fuss is about race where the real issu should be music and noth els.

urban is pc version for sai black music. i'm not doubt ms stone's talent, but why didn't jamelia or lemar get a brit? thi remind me of what happen to craig david and soul ii soul in the past, get nomin ar easi to get, but pick up a brit seem to be the hardest thing.

refresh to see peopl make reason, intellig comment on ani topic these dai. more power to you, peopl! you have said it: there is music you like and music you don't like - who care what label you put on it?

that entir categori wa a mess. how can you have peopl like dizze rascal up against joss stone? it like put eminem against bob geldof. she should have been nomin for best british r & b act. joss stone deserv to win an award for her talent, but i don't think it wa veri 'urban' of her to sing angel with robbi william.

urban is a nonsens term - music of black origin? well doesn't that includ rock? music made in the inner citi? well almost all band end up make music in london/manchest etc. and doesn't that make some weird implic that all black peopl live in citi? it doesn't make ani sens.

why doe music have to be put into a genr? it's music, you like it or you don't. simpl as that.

i plai in a heavi metal band. we ar urban music as far as i'm concern. we live in citi and spend our work life in an urban environ; it therefor directli shape what we write music.

"urban" seem to be the new name for all style of black music. why it need a rebrand i don't know as the name is mislead. oasi origin from a citi and characteris the urban life thei know, therefor more than fit the term "urban" yet as thei're a white rock band thei won't be describ as such.

joss stone ha a fantast voic and great time and deliveri - what other reason do thei need to award her the brit? all thi "urban" and other such categoris is just the red-tape of the music busi and is best ignor.

yeah, she deserv it. she is talent. urban is a crap, meaningless, polit correct and probabl actual racist market term though. there's onli two kind of music: good and bad.
