rapper kany west's shrewd soul

us hip-hop star kany west - who lead the race for thi year's grammi with 10 nomin - rose to promin by produc song for artist such as jai-z and alicia kei.

he then emerg from hi behind-the-scene role to becom an artist as well as a produc. but hi solo career almost end befor it began after a near-fatal car crash left west with hi jaw wire shut in 2002. the result song, through the wire, becam west's first uk hit in april 2004 and subsequ album the colleg dropout becam a transatlant success, both critic and commerci. west, 26, began rap as a teenag at hi chicago school, inspir by the beat and rhyme of 1980s pioneer run dmc.

hip-hop produc no id encourag west to sampl old soul and r&b hit then reviv them with an updat sound, an approach that would becom hi trademark. "i feel like a lot of the soul that's in those old record that i sampl is in me," he said. "so when i hear them and i put them with the drum and i bring them to the new millennium, it's just like god's do that. i'm on with them record right there. it's a bless."

leav hi chicago art school after onli on year - a move which would later inspir the titl of hi album - west began hi music career co-produc song for artist mase and the madd rapper. thi drew the attent of superstar rapper jai-z, who sign west up to hi roc-a-fella record label to produc numer artist on hi roster. west's work gain mainstream recognit when he produc the singl takeov and izzo (hova) on jai-z's own 2001 album blueprint. incorpor sampl of five to on by the door and the jackson five's i want you back respect, the hit were credit with inject soul back into hip-hop.

as their success attract further product work for jai-z ('03 bonni & clyde) and artist such as ludacri (stand up) and alicia kei (you don't know my name), west announc plan for a solo album. drive home from a late-night lo angel record session in octob 2002, he wa involv in the car crash that left hi jaw fractur in three place. "anytim i hear about ani accid my heart sink in and i just thank god that i'm still here," he later said. "that steer wheel could have been two inch further out, and that would have been it."

west's account of the accid sampl chaka khan's hit through the fire to becom the heart of hi complet solo album the colleg dropout. releas last year, it wa by turn smooth, humor and sharp and larg avoid the clich&#233;d hip-hop preoccup with gun, girl and jewelleri.

through the wire wa quickli join in the uk and us chart by slow jamz, on which west collabor with rapper twista and rai actor jami foxx. the colleg dropout spawn two further uk hit and a string of award nomin. west wa shortlist for 10 grammi - includ nomin for artist and album of the year - and took the best hip-hop artist, produc and album titl at last year's music of black origin (mobo) award. now a respect rapper and produc in the influenti field of hip-hop, kany west is unlik to regret hi decis to leav colleg earli.
