u2's desir to be number on

u2, who have won three prestigi grammi award for their hit vertigo, ar stubbornli cling to their statu as on of the biggest band in the world.

the most popular group in the histori of rock all have sever thing in common. the music must be inspir and appeal across gener and be distinct, if not alwai groundbreak. but such success is down to more than music. thei have to be compel perform, charismat and intellig enough to make good decis and keep their feet on the ground. thei also have to want it. thei have to want to be the biggest band ever and not stop want it. the beatl had it, the roll stone still have it, rem hold onto it and queen were it in a catsuit. and u2 have it in spade, and keep churn it out. their new album, how to dismantl an atom bomb, come 28 year after the schoolfriend got togeth in dublin and 17 year after the joshua tree cement their place on the all-time rock a-list.

thei mai have lost some of the edgi and raw, youth forc that propel them to the top, but thei have lost none of the desir or abil to craft song and album.

vertigo, the first singl from the new album, went straight into the uk singl chart at number on, knock eminem off the top spot and give them their 26th top 10 hit. "the challeng is to be bigger and bolder and better - to make record the whole world will listen to," bono recent said. drummer larri mullen jr echo those sentiment: "we're veri competit - we want to be on the radio, have big singl. we don't want to be thought of as a veteran band." the band have done "everyth in their consider power" to ensur thei remain the biggest band in the world, accord to q magazin editor paul ree.

"thi make them huge determin and formid." he ad: "thei ar equal determin to push themselv to make music that continu to stand up. "as such, thei've constantli re-invent and challeng themselv. thei ar, perhap, alon as the onli rock band that ha got better with ag." the other kei ingredi wa the fact thei were highli organis, mr ree said. "thei do everyth in the right wai." the group were born when mullen put an appeal for bandmat on a high school notic board, attract fellow pupil paul hewson (bono, vocal), adam clayton (bass), david evan (the edg, guitar) and hi brother dick.

dick evan soon drop out and the four-piec were known as the feedback and the hype befor settl on u2.

by 1978, thei had won a talent contest and got notic by a manag, paul mcguin. "thei were brilliant, but veri coars," mcguin recent said. "in a wai, thei were do exactli what thei do now. onli badli." thei struggl to attract record compani attent, later be describ as "pretti damn averag" and "strang and eeri" by scout who saw them live. thei releas two ireland-onli singl, which top the nation chart in 1979 and 1980, lead to a deal with island and their debut album boi. the stadium-fill, anthem sound wa u2's aim from the start, and their third album, war, saw them make the breakthrough on both side of the atlant, go to number on in the uk and 12 in the us. song like sundai bloodi sundai and new year's dai brought success and an imag as a polit and spiritu band - which bono reject as a clich.

hi stage perform - which includ flag-wave, speaker-climb and drum-throw - earn him a reput as an electr perform, and their appear at 1985's live aid is wide seen as seal their global stardom.

in 1987, the joshua tree broke sale record and saw the band reach the height of their power with hit includ where the street have no name, i still haven't found what i'm look for and with or without you. those song took the band's epic, atmospher sound to a simpl, power and popular pinnacl. the end of the decad mark a crucial point for the band - thei had reach the top but still yearn for new challeng and achiev. these came in the form of explor of differ branch of rock and forai into electron danc music, plu wildli extravag stage show, while still try to retain their mass appeal. the achtung babi album in 1991 wa follow by zooropa, pop and their correspond stadium tour, which featur giant oliv, fly car, live phone call to the white hous and bono's transform into alter-ego the fly and macphisto. he wa also build a parallel reput - not alwai to the pleasur of hi bandmat - as a campaign on issu from global debt to aid. befor the releas of how to dismantl an atom bomb, thei had sold 125 million album around the world. but thei still want more.
