last influenc of legend charl

rai charl, who ha won a string of posthum grammi award, belong to a pioneer gener of artist that had a huge influenc on the cours of rock and pop music.

hi sound encompass so mani style - blue, gospel, jazz, rock 'n' roll, even countri - and had a real impact on the nascent uk beat and r&b scene.

compar in statur to elvi preslei by some comment, charl' song cast their spell on such 1960s stalwart as joe cocker, steve winwood, eric burdon and van morrison. hi influenc ha extend to contemporari artist such as norah jone, with whom he recent record a duet. if jame brown wa the godfath of soul, then rai charl wa indisput on of it found father. along with sam cook, he wa instrument in bring togeth the gospel fervour of the deep south baptist church with the "devil's" music of r&b to pave the wai for a new gener of soul artist.

without charl, it is hard to imagin the tear-stain atlant r&b sound of aretha franklin, oti red or wilson pickett. he wa also a talent jazz compos, arrang and band leader, plai at the newport jazz festiv and carnegi hall and record with note jazz musician such as milt jackson and david "fathead" newman. unfortun, he also share anoth trait common among mani jazz artist of the era - that of heroin addict, which led to him be arrest in 1965. hi string of 1950s atlant r&b success includ song that would be cover by the first-gener rock 'n' roll great, includ i've got a woman (roi orbison, elvi preslei) and hallelujah, i love her so (eddi cochran). after the exuber of hi 1959 signatur song what'd i sai, charl turn toward a more pop-orient style, record hoagi carmichael's sentiment string ballad georgia on my mind, and the upbeat hit the road jack.

he also won acclaim in the countri arena with hi interpret of hank william standard such as your cheat heart and you win again. more than 40 year after it releas, hi 1962 abc album modern sound in countri and western music is still regard as a classic. hi version of don gibson's i can't stop love you top the pop and r&b chart in the us. in 1972, he made a rare forai into protest song with hi album a messag from the peopl.

on it, he took a stand on poverti and civil right - echo similar record of the era from progeni such as stevi wonder, jame brown, curti mayfield and marvin gay. more than 20 year later, he would embrac contemporari product with hi 1993 album my world, which featur hip-hop beat - although charl claim at the time not to know what hip-hop wa. among the tribut that pour in from all section of the music world when charl di ag 73 in june 2004 wa on from hi friend, the produc quinci jone, who describ him as a "brother in everi sens of the word". "there will never be anoth musician who did as much to break down the perceiv wall of music genr as much as rai charl did," he said. former manfr mann singer paul jone, who sang on 1960s hit such as come tomorrow and sha la la, said charl wa on of hi hero. "i'm quit sure my own write wa influenc by him," he told bbc new onlin. "i would put monei on the proposit that rai charl will have an influenc on music forev."
