grammi honour soul star charl

the memori of soul legend rai charl domin the music world's lead music ceremoni on sundai as he wa given eight posthum grammi award.

charl, who di in 2004, got honour includ record and album of the year, while alicia kei and actor jami foxx perform a music tribut to him. r&b star kei won four award herself at the grammi ceremoni in lo angel. u2, usher, norah jone and kany west got three each. west led the race go into the ceremoni with 10 nomin.

charl' last album, geniu love compani, a collect of duet that ha sold more than two million copi, wa name album of the year and best pop vocal album. hi song here we go again with norah jone won record of the year and best pop vocal collabor, while heaven help us all with gladi knight pick up best gospel perform. jone said: "i'm glad he's get recognis, becaus of who he is and how much i love him." actor jami foxx - who is nomin for an oscar for plai charl in the hit movi rai - dedic a rendit of georgia on my mind to "old friend". kei, look to replic her grammi success of 2002, when she won five, pick up best r&b song for you don't know my name and best r&b album for the diari of alicia kei. she also share the award for best r&b vocal perform by a duo or group with usher for my boo.

usher's other victori were for best contemporari r&b album for confess and best rap/sung collabor for yeah!, featur lil jon and ludacri. kany west domin the rap categori, win best rap song for jesu walk and best rap album for the colleg dropout. but in on of the night's biggest shock, he lost out in the battl to be name best new artist to pop rock act maroon 5. vertigo by rock giant u2 won three trophi - best rock song, best short video and best rock vocal perform by a duo or group. on of the other main award, song of the year, went to us singer-songwrit john mayer for daughter. mayer also won best male pop vocal perform. britnei spear pick up her first ever grammi for her song toxic, which wa name best danc record.

rod stewart also won the first grammi of hi career, get the best tradit pop album award for stardust... the great american songbook: volum iii. in 2003, stewart said he wa "astound" he had never won a grammi - but "thei tend not to give it to the british unless you're sting". there were few other high-profil british victor thi year. anni lennox, metal group motorhead and danc act basement jaxx all took home trophi. but elvi costello, who had four nomin, and joss stone and franz ferdinand, who were both up for three award, got noth.

beach boi veteran brian wilson wa anoth first-time winner - for best rock instrument perform. "it repres triumph and achiev in music that i feel that i deserv, and i'm realli glad i won," he said. a live record of compos john adam' 11 septemb tribut, on the transmigr of soul, perform by the new york philharmon, won three classic prize. and former us presid bill clinton pick up the second grammi of hi career, win the spoken word award for the audio version of hi autobiographi my life.
