black sabbath top rock album poll

black sabbath have top a list of the best british rock album of all time.

the band onc front by ozzi osbourn led a poll of kerrang! magazin reader with their 1970 self-titl debut. the band have three more effort on the list, includ fifth-place paranoid. osbourn appear more than ani other act, with two solo record featur. the top five includ led zeppelin, iron maiden and sex pistol. queen, muse, manic street preacher and the clash complet the top 10. a mix of heavi metal, punk, glam rock and even danc music make up the list. motorhead, juda priest and prodigi ar includ along with newer act like the dark and lostprophet.

kerrang! editor ashlei bird said: "it's amaz to see so mani incred homegrown album in on list, and without ani of the abysm fashion band that current clog up the music scene. "these ar the real opinion of proper rock fan."

form by four teenag friend in the west midland in the late 1960s, black sabbath ar on of britain's most success heavi rock band. their debut wa a uk top 10 hit in 1970 and sold more than a million copi in the us. osbourn said the band's success in the kerrang! poll wa a triumph for british rock. he said: "back then you'd hear: 'if you go to san francisco, be sure to wear a flower in your hair'. "we live in aston, birmingham. the onli flower i ever saw were on a graveston in our local cemeteri." despit be dislik by mani critic, black sabbath's subsequ album includ multi-million seller but intern row led to osbourn leav in 1979. the band continu without osbourn, who went on to solo success but also had to battl alcohol and legal action over hi music allegedli incit teenag to commit suicid. he wa eventu clear of the charg. osbourn, who bit off the head of a live bat on stage in 1982, rejoin the band to plai the live aid chariti concert in 1985. after mani chang in line-up, the origin four member reunit to plai live date in 1997. black sabbath have reunit regularli in recent year while osbourn ha gone on to wider fame with hi famili through mtv documentari seri the osbourn.
