german music in a 'zombi' state

the german music busi - the third largest in the world - is "in the state of a zombi" becaus it ha fail to respond to the challeng pose by download and piraci, a lead industri figur ha said.

tim renner, the head of univers music germani until last year, told bbc world servic's the music biz programm that the countri's music industri wa now struggl to surviv. renner warn that unless the industri accept "new realti" - such as download - it declin could becom irrevers. "the problem the music industri ha got is that thei aren't will to accept that the classic wai of do busi is over and out," he state. "so the music industri in it current form over here is pretti much in the state of a zombi."

the music market in germani peak in 1997, with sale of 2.6bn euro (£1.8bn). sinc 2000, sale have plummet to just 1.6bn euro (£1.1bn) in 2003. in the space of on year - between 2002 and 2003 - cd album sale fell by 13.8%. but a studi by the societi for consum research found that at the same time, more than twice as mani record cd had music record on them than cd album were sold. mr renner point out that, becaus profit come mainli from the longev of a good-sell record, thi wa particularli damag.

"you need time," he ad. howev, peter zombic, the manag director of the intern feder of phonograph industri in germani, said he did not feel the situat wa as "dramat" as mr renner believ. "it's quit true that we have sever problem in germani - but that's true in other part of the world and in most develop market too," he argu. "we have a sever problem with piraci, especi internet piraci, and we also have a sever problem of privat copi. "i don't agre that the music industri lost control over the music market - in fact, especi in regard to germani talent, the market is quit success." he did, howev, admit that copyright owner have "partli lost control of their copyright", due to piraci and copi.

but he refut suggest that the industri had been too slow to respond to digit download. "we were the first to implement a download servic - back in 1997," he argu. "at that time it wa not success, becaus of the advent of piraci - it wa the napster time, when p2p servic becam popular. "it still is quit difficult for the music industri to compet with a price that is zero as far as the illeg product is concern." mr zombic also call for a chang to the percept in germani that privat copi of music is not a problem. german law doe allow peopl to make copi of cd for their famili and close friend, without fear of break copyright. mr zombic said that thi legal framework wa a "huge problem". "there is a widespread attitud that privat copi is a hobbi, it's nice, it's fun," he ad. "we try to make clear it's not nice and it's not fun - it's endang the creativ in our countri."
