music man to the oscar

bill conti's job of music director of the oscar show is not for the faint-heart sinc conduct the orchestra is the ultim plate-spin assign.

thi year mark conti's 17th turn at the helm of the academi award orchestra. "the excit is a live perform as a musician," he sai. "all of your colleagu, everyon in the film industri is in the theatr. all the import peopl. "i guess it's just a televis show but we alwai think it's a bit more.' the orchestra strike up more than 110 time dure the averag oscar show. as well as plai the present and winner on and off stage, it also perform dure the commerci break to entertain the live audienc in the hous.

"it's a veri busi even, it take a certain amount of prepar of music, orchestr, sketch rehears, befor the show. but you don't know what the unexpect will be and as the music director, it's excit," explain conti. and much of the prepar goe into master score that will never be perform. "we don't know who the winner will be. so when thei sai, 'the winner is', we have five differ piec of music in front of us, thei sai the name, we plai the appropri on immedi," add conti.

the orchestra is often call upon to plai when the winner rambl on too long dure their accept speech, despit be told to be brief by the show's produc.

the decis to drown out or 'kill' the offend star with music is relai from the director's box to the orchestra via conti's earpiec. "i don't feel good about it at all. it's not my call though," he sai. "when the director sai 'music' the orchestra plai and he take a long shot of the hall. we don't usual see the person speak while hi microphon is cut off. "the person that's been cut off, who's 10 feet from me, is glare at me like it's death time." on occas, some star have taken it upon themselv to send a warn shot across the bow of the music director befor thei start to speak. "julia robert, when she came on, she ask me to not get readi to plai becaus she had so much to do," he sai. conti receiv an oscar in 1983 for the origin score of the right stuff. he also receiv two nomin in the origin song categori in 1976 for gonna fly now from rocki and in 1981 for the titl song from for your ey onli.

"it's a moment in the sun," he sai. "when peopl get up there, some peopl, thi is hard to believ, peopl that spend their live in front of the camera or audienc entertain, might get a littl fluster. "but there's thi moment in time when the biggest award that thei could possibl get in their life ha been hand to them and thei're either not in control or thei want to thank everyon that thei ever met."

the imag of the oscar telecast is on of slick present and smooth transit between perform and the award categori. behind the scene, the kei player, such as conti, have a bewild arrai of technic prop to deal with. "there's a big script and video monitor you have to watch and there ar also audio control. i can control hear in my ear, the left ear or the right ear - differ thing at differ time.

"i have to commun with the director. i have a littl microphon that's attach to my headset. to open up that microphon, i have a footswitch," he explain. conti's most nerv-wrack moment came dure hi first oscar show as music director, in 1977, when a member of the orchestra alert him that thei could smell smoke. conti immedi told the show's director: "i start curs and scream, i tell him we're not go to die for thi show - you must do someth or i'm go to climb out of thi pit with 60 musician and we're go to be home in 10 minut. "'oh no bill don't do anyth," came the respons. "imagin these elegantli dress ladi and gentlemen of the orchestra, 60 or so of them in the pit and while we're plai, firemen with their helmet and their hatchet crawl among us try to find the reason for the smoke." the smell turn out to be new paint smoulder on the music stand. "no on di, it's not a big stori, but it wa scari at the time," laugh conti. when the ceremoni is over, the music director attend the annual governor's ball with hi famili. "i have a drink and reliv the show," he sai. "i'm not for too much carous. i go home and unwind. it take me about a dai."
