rap feud in 50 cent's g-unit crew

us rap star 50 cent ha said he ha thrown proteg the game out of hi g-unit gang in a feud that ha appar involv two shoot.

in a radio interview on mondai, 50 cent said the newcom wa disloy in conflict with other rapper. a man wa shot in the thigh outsid new york's hot 97 studio while 50 cent wa on air. more shot were fire outsid hi manag offic two hour later. 50 cent appear on the game's debut album, which wa number on in the us. 50 cent, whose second album is about to be releas after hi debut made him on of hip-hop's biggest star, ha been involv in recent rivalri with fellow artist includ fat joe, na and jadakiss.

he ha claim credit for the success of the game, who ha becom the hottest new star on the rap scene. both were drug dealer and were shot befor turn to music.

in an interview with hot 97 on saturdai, the game describ some of 50 cent's rival as "my friend" and said he would not turn on them. "na is on of my friend, and jada's realli a homi," he said. "50's beef is 50's beef and i realli don't know where all thi stem from." when 50 cent appear on the same station two dai later, he said the game wa no longer a member of g-unit. "everi record he's sell is base on me be on hi record with him," he said. when the shoot took place outsid the studio, the interview wa end and the rapper wa escort out of the build by secur personnel.

an unidentifi 24-year-old lo angel man is stabl with a gunshot wound to the upper thigh. polic sai the game's associ mai have heard the interview and gone to the studio, where thei confront 50 cent's entourag. offic ar also investig a later shoot in which eight bullet were fire into the door of 50 cent's manag compani, violat. no arrest have been made in relat to either incid. 50 cent's second album, the massacr, is releas on thursdai, five week after the game's debut, documentari, went to number on.

elliott wilson, editor-in-chief of hip-hop magazin xxl, said the feud would boost public for 50 cent's releas. "it help him obvious in term of exposur. you can't ask for better promot," he said. but he ad: "i think he's make more and more enemi. "you definit feel like is he do too much of a tupac spiral, like me against the world. you bring more peopl want to see you fail." tupac shakur wa shot dead in 1996.
