dj doubl act revamp chart show

dj duo jk and joel ar take over bbc radio 1's flagship chart show on sundai, ad showbiz new, celebr interview and between-song banter.

thei hope to boost rate for the long-run show, which ha been overtaken in popular by independ radio's hit 40 uk rundown. "radio 1's chart show is an institut and remain the station's singl most popular show," sai jk, also known as jason king. "for year peopl have been tune in at four o'clock with their tape record readi to record their favourit tune. not that i ever did that. "but thing have move on a lot now so it wa time for a chang."

that chang involv eject previou host we butter and reloc king and dj partner joel ross from their weekend afternoon radio 1 slot. the pair have work togeth for a decad - meet on vike radio in hull befor move to manchest station kei 103 and win two soni radio award. thei also present gadget seri playboyz and car show motor maniac for cabl tv channel granada men and motor, and pure soap on bbc three.

on the revamp chart show their cheeki, laddish banter will punctuat star interview and competit, film and dvd chart plu a look at futur singl releas, in addit to the singl chart itself. "the chart rundown is no longer the onli point of the programm," sai ross. "the show us to be the onli wai to discov who wa in the top 40. now you can just click on the internet to find that out, so the show ha plenti of extra item too." the show's reduc relianc upon the top 40 also reflect the fact that music fan ar now more like to download song in digit format rather than bui them on compact disc, vinyl or cassett.

"i person bui download rather than cd singl," sai 27-year-old ross. "even my grandma can download song now. jk is still struggl with the technolog, though." "but it's prematur for peopl to sai that the singl chart is dead," ross add. "while sale of singl on tradit format ar down, interest in song ha been reviv by download sale, which will be incorpor into our main chart rundown from april. "music fan still want to know what is the most popular song of the week."

ross will be plump for chart success from rapper verbalici and the stereophon on sundai, while king is more of an r&b and danc music fan. "so listen will get the advantag of both our music tast," sai king, 30, who describ outgo host butter as "an extrem profession and compet broadcast".

"the advantag joel and i have is that we're a doubl act, with a rapport between us that make the show much more interact," king sai. "we ha a great broadcast career ahead of him. and if not, i could alwai us a cleaner," he joke. ross sai the pair have done their best to ignor the weight of expect place upon the revamp show. "other peopl can worri about that, we ar go to continu do what we do well," he sai. "at the end of the dai thi is a radio show that is meant to be entertain. nobodi di."
