musician to tackl us red tape

musician' group ar to tackl us visa regul which ar blame for hinder british act' chanc of succeed across the atlant.

a singer hope to perform in the us can expect to pai $1,300 (£680) simpli for obtain a visa. group includ the musician' union ar call for an end to the "raw deal" face by british perform. us act ar not face with compar expens and bureaucraci when visit the uk for promot purpos.

nigel mccune from the musician' union said british musician ar "disadvantag" compar to their us counterpart. a sponsor ha to make a petit on their behalf, which is a form amount to nearli 30 page, while musician face tougher regul than athlet and journalist. "if you make a mistak on your form, you risk a five-year ban and thu the abil to further your career," sai mr mccune.

"the us is the world's biggest music market, which mean someth ha to be done about the creaki bureaucraci," sai mr mccune. "the current situat is prevent british act from maintain momentum and develop in the us," he ad.

the musician' union stanc is be endors by the music manag' forum (mmf), who sai british artist face "an uphil struggl" to succe in the us, thank to the tough visa requir, which ar also seen as impract. the mmf's gener secretari jame seller said: "imagin if you were an orchestra from the orknei? everi member would have to travel to london to have their visa process."

"the us market is seen as the holi grail and on of the benchmark of success, and we're still go to fight to get in there. "it's still veri import, but there ar other market like europ, india and china," ad mr seller. a depart for media, cultur and sport spokeswoman said: "we're awar that peopl ar experienc problem, and ar work with the us embassi and record industri to see what we can do about it." a us embassi spokesman said: "we ar awar that entertain requir visa for time-specif visa and ar do everyth we can to process those applic speedili." "we ar awar of the import of cultur exchang and we will do our best to facilit that," he ad.
