u2 star enter rock hall of fame

singer bruce springsteen ha induct irish rock band u2 into the rock and roll hall of fame, in new york.

the lavish ceremoni, celebr the 50th anniversari of rock 'n' roll, also saw the induct of the pretend, perci sledg, the o'jai and buddi gui. "thi wa a band that want to lai claim to thi world and the next on, too," said springsteen. bono, the edg, adam clayton and larri mullen jr, who form u2 at school in 1977, begin a world tour on 28 march. introduc the band, springsteen mock bono as the man who "singl-handedli pioneer the irish mullet", poke fun at "on of the best and most endearingli messian complex in rock 'n' roll". but he also spoke of the group's endur statur, ad that it wa the onli band of the last 20 year where he knew all four member' name.

u2's contemporari, the pretend, led by chrissi hynd - took to the stage to perform my citi wa gone with inducte neil young. "we ar a tribut band," said hynd, 53. "we're pai tribut to jame honeyman-scott and pete farndon, without whom we would not have been here," she said, refer to the prematur death of two of the band's guitarist from drug overdos.

britain's rod stewart introduc perci sledg, cite hi best-known hit when a man love a woman as "on of the best perform i've ever heard". justin timberlak introduc soul group the o'jai, a gospel-style quartet from ohio, who perform a medlei of their best-known song includ back stabber, love train and for the love of monei. "anyon who's ever written, produc or perform someth soul stand in the shadow of these giant," said timberlak.

join the ceremoni at new york's waldorf astoria were legendari r&b star bo diddlei, who perform with eric clapton and robbi robertson.

clapton, alongsid bb king, also introduc fellow guitarist buddi gui and recal see him plai as a teenag in england. "he wa for me what elvi wa probabl like for other peopl," he said. "my cours wa set and he wa my pilot," said clapton who join gui and king in a perform of let me love you babi. also perform at the ceremoni wa veteran musician jerri lee lewi who continu hi reput as a rowdi piano-pounder despit hi 69 year, kick over hi stool and sit on the piano dure a rendit of whole lotta shakin' goin' on.
