no uk premier for ring music

the produc behind the lord of the ring music have abandon plan to premier the show in london becaus no suitabl theatr wa avail.

the £11.5m show will make it debut in toronto in march 2006, after it wa found that all three west end theatr with suffici capac were book. the music is not expect in london befor decemb 2006. produc kevin wallac said it would be "worth wait for". "it will be like noth thei have ever seen befor." "i know there will be a lot of disappoint british tolkien fan who hope to see the show in london, but we couldn't get a london theatr in time," ad the british produc. the world premier of the stage music, co-produc by canadian theatric impresario david and ed mirvish, will take place at toronto's princess of wale theatr next year.

"toronto realli want thi premier. the tolkien book and film ar huge popular in canada," said mr wallac, shortli after sign the deal in canada. "we hope the anticip and excit over here will creat an even bigger buzz by the time we open in london." audit begin in canada on thursdai, but up to five british actor mai join the cast, under a deal struck with canadian actor' equiti. the music for the show is be written by bollywood compos ar rahman, who wa behind andrew lloyd webber's west end music bollywood dream, and in conjuct with the finnish group varttina.

"there will be no sing and danc hobbit. the music will be in a veri tradit mould and draw on ethnic tradit," assur mr wallac. the music's british director is matthew warchu, best known for stage the worldwid stage hit art. "the product will be a hybrid of text, physic theatr, music and spectacl never previous seen on thi scale," he said. "onli in the theatr ar we actual plung into the event as thei happen. the environ surround us and we ar in middl earth." new zealand peter jackson took 10 year to bring jrr tolkien's fantasi trilogi to the big screen, win academi award for best film and best director for the final film the return of the king in 2004.
