bollywood draw global star

british actress antonia bernath is make her debut in kisna - the warrior poet, mark a grow trend for non-indian star to appear in bollywood film.

direct by bollywood veteran subhash ghai, the film is set in the british raj and bernath plai an armi gener's daughter who fall in love with a rural boi, kisna. "i like the fluid natur of film-make. we improvis quit a lot," sai bernath. "at time it felt veri chaotic but mr ghai wa quit clear about what he want." pick from more than 200 girl in an audit in london, bernath cut short her educ at bristol's old vic theatr school to take up the opportun. it is not often that somebodi get to plai the lead role straight out of a drama school. she spent three week learn hindi and take danc lesson. "initi, i wa a bit sceptic about how peopl would respond to me," bernath sai. "but i found the hindi film industri veri warm and encourag. i even had a few offer befor the work on kisna wa complet."

film ar on of india's biggest export and those like lagaan and monsoon wed have broken the tradit boundari of colour and cultur. spur by thi, bollywood produc ar try to go global in all aspect of film-make, be it technic or artist.

from young heart-throb like nick moran of lock, stock and two smoke barrel to model sophi dahl, mani non-indian star want to make the most of thi opportun. "bollywood ha truli gone global," sai taran adarsh, editor of indian film journal trade guid. "director ar now attempt to woo non-asian audienc to increas their share in the oversea film market." kisna ha been shot simultan in hindi and english, with the english print shorten by an hour to accommod the western audienc. the film even ha a song compos in english by ar rahman, the director of the popular west end music, bombai dream. "identif is a popular cinemat devic. us of european or american actor can be view as a step in that direct," sai adarsh.

the cast of kisna also includ british actor michael malonei, carolin langrish and polli adam.

anoth actress, annabel wallac, plai the lead role in a bilingu romant comedi dil jo bhi kahei (whatev the heart sai), which also star indian screen legend amitabh bachchan. actor and produc aamir khan's forthcom ventur the rise is set against the backdrop of the indian mutini of 1857, with british actor tobi stephen in a kei role. but it isn't onli the western actor look eastward. bollywood sweetheart aishwarya rai, recent seen in bride and prejudic alongsid new zealand actor martin henderson, is build her intern career. and, mani other bollywood star have their ey set on hollywood. "hollywood or bollywood, it's the box offic that determin whether someth is a pass phase or a trend," sai adarsh.

kisna - the warrior poet open in the uk on 21 januari.
