film product 'fall' 40% in uk

the number of british film produc in the uk fell 40% in 2004, with movi star johnni depp and jude law among those affect, screen daili ha said.

twenti-seven british film were made in the uk last year follow a drop in fund, compar with 45 in 2003, accord to the trade weekli. it attribut the drop to tighter tax law and reduc fund from sourc such as the nation lotteri. uk and us co-product in britain fell from 102 in 2003 to 81 last year.

last year the govern close tax loophol that mani film investor had taken advantag of to fund film in the uk. sever project were shelv as thei face the implic of thi clampdown, coupl with the reduct in movi fund from tradit sourc includ the lotteri and miramax film. shoot on period drama tulip fever, which wa to star jude law and keira knightlei, wa postpon indefinit while shoot of the libertin star johnni depp wa move to the isl of man.

"there isn't anyth come in to replac (the fund)," said the libertin's execut produc marc samuelson. "we ar in a hiatu." film with "medium" budget of up to £9m, a similar level to box offic hit vera drake, calendar girl and endur love, ar expect to be worst hit by the tax clampdown. the strength of the pound against the dollar is expect to have result in a fall in the number of us film shot in the uk dure 2004, screen intern ad. big budget co-product, such as the harri potter seri, continu to be shot in the uk, howev. the uk film council said the drop wa partli due to 2003 be an especi good year for british film product, when bridget jone: the edg of reason, wimbledon and thunderbird were all film in the uk.

"the drop wa expect as there wa no wai 2003's record level of product could be better," the council's spokesperson said. "the reduct in indigen film product in 2004 wa due to a varieti of factor, includ the continu long-term trend toward co-product of film in more than on countri and chang to financ arrang." it wa "too earli" to predict whether the downward trend in uk product would continu throughout 2005, the uk film council said. in septemb the govern introduc subsidi worth up to £4m per film for medium budget film, under new treasuri measur. it is also due to announc a replac for uk film tax relief scheme section 48 in juli.
