the comic book geniu of stan lee

stan lee, the man respons for a string of comic superhero that have becom household name, ha won a court battl for a slice of the profit from the hit spider-man movi.

mani marvel at the man who gave hi charact extraordinari power and everydai headach - a formula which revolutionis comic. born in 1922 to poor work-class jewish immigr from romania, stan lieberman, got a job in time public, a compani own by a rel. he wa assign to the comic divis and - thank to a fertil imagin - rose to editor by the ag of 18. for more than 20 year, he wa "the ultim hack" - knock out crime stori, horror, western, anyth to sate the appetit of hi juvenil readership. word of more than two syllabl were discourag. charact were either all good or bad, with no shade of grei. so embarrass wa lieberman by much of what he wa write that he refus to put hi real name on the bylin. he assum the "dumb name", stan lee, now legal adopt.

by the time he wa 40, lee had decid he wa too old for the comic game. hi british-born wife, joan, suggest he had noth to lose and, for hi swansong, should write the kind of charact he realli want to creat. after a rival comic had come up with a superteam consist of batman, superman and wonder woman, time need to respond.

lee's answer, in 1961, wa the fantast four - a team of astronaut who gain super power after be bombard with cosmic rai. thei were to chang lee's life, and the comic industri, forev. lee gave each charact individu, everydai teenag problem such as dandruff, ingrown toenail and acn. thei would frequent fall out with their parent and each other. the fan letter pour in. without immedi know it, stan lee had usher in the golden ag of comic, and hi imagin wa rekindl. hi marvel univers spawn the new titl of marvel comic. soon after, nerdi peter parker wa transform - after a bite from an irradi spider - into someon who could crawl up the side of new york's skyscrap. spider-man wa born. he wa to becom an icon of modern popular cultur. spidei, as he is affection known, had quit extraordinari power - yet he had problem at work, at home and with hi girlfriend. at last, the teenag wa no longer just the sidekick, but the main hero. and the hero wa no longer just brawn, he had brain too.

"just becaus he's a hero and ha super power doesn't mean he doesn't have problem," stan lee told the bbc. the incred hulk, the mighti thor, iron man and the rest all grappl with problem like drug abus, bigotri and social inequ. radic, lee gave the artist respons for the comic design credit for their work. jack kirbi, frank miller, john romitaand and other achiev cult statu in their own right. other superhero broke new ground in other wai. daredevil wa blind, black panther wa black and silver surfer ponder the state of human. lee's influenc remain. some year ago the marvel hero, northstar, came out of the closet. in it heydai, marvel wa sell 50 million copi a year. until he retir from edit in 1971, stan lee wrote all the copi for marvel's cover.

in 1999, hi stan lee media ventur, aim at marri comic-strip with the internet, went spectacularli wrong. lee went bankrupt and hi busi partner land in prison for fraud. in 2001 though, he start a new compani entitl pow! (purveyor of wonder) entertain, which is current develop film and televis programm. hi latest project is a superhero base on a real person - jai j arm, who ha metal claw after lose both hand ag 12 and fight crime with a tiger. but hi 40-year-old creation ar still as endur as ever - with x-men, the hulk and daredevil have all been turn into hollywood action movi in the last five year. but spider-man ha been the biggest box offic hit, with the 2002 origin and it 2004 sequel take almost $1.6bn (£857m) in ticket sale around the world - befor dvd and merchandis sale ar count. it seem stan lee is as indestruct as hi hero.
