bangkok film festiv battl on

organis of the third bangkok intern film festiv have been determin to carri on with thi year's event despit the ravag of the asian tsunami disast.

the festiv have been scale down, red carpet have been mothbal and profit from ticket sale ar be donat to the tsunami relief fund. apart from thi, howev, the festiv ha continu as origin plan. "when the disast happen, we natur ask ourselv if we should cancel," said the festiv's execut director, craig prater. "the decis wa made that we would continu, but that the focu would chang.

"our premier becam fundrais, the open night wa visibl tone down and 10% of everi ticket sold goe to the disast fund," he continu. "but we feel like we've turn a page. we've acknowledg our posit, and now it's busi as usual."

mr prater's sentiment were echo by christin rush, director of the festiv's sister event, the bangkok film market. "we have been care to be respect of the thai nation's recoveri from thi terribl disast," she said.

"howev, the nation's recoveri veri much depend upon it continu it econom life. "we ar encourag attende to keep the victim in mind and aggress support the aid organis help out," she ad. given the conspicu low audienc figur, that support mai be more symbol than signific. howev, poor ticket sale have less to do with ani fallout from the disast and more to do with administr and promot difficulti.

the eclect programm contain a wide rang of titl, includ such oscar hope as rai charl biopic rai and mike leigh's abort drama vera drake. that said, the absenc of thai subtitl on most film print might have prove offput to local cinemago.

on a more posit note, the celebr guest attend the event have gener huge media interest in thi busi capit citi. problem secur air transport, the clash with last sundai's golden globe ceremoni in lo angel and other factor have forc some big name to cancel.

but the festiv ha still attract such hollywood director as oliv stone and joel schumach, alongsid such screen star as michael dougla, jeremi iron and jean-claud van damm. iron, whose film be julia is in competit for the festiv's golden kinnare award, said he had wonder whether he should attend after decemb's catastroph. "i question whether i should come when such a tragedi had happen," the british actor said. "i thought it might be in rather bad tast. but then i spoke to the organis and i wa encourag to let life go on. "now i've come here i'm veri glad. what impress me about thai cultur is thei get over these thing far quicker than we do in the west," he continu. "basic i wa invit here by thailand. if thei still want you to come, you should."

now in it third year, bangkok is a rel recent addit to the hectic film festiv calendar. and while it ha yet to attain the statur of more establish event held in hong kong, tokyo and pusan in south korea, mr prater predict it will soon becom their equal. "it's grown awfulli fast in three year - mayb too fast," he conced. "we've had some bump in the road, but that's onli becaus the festiv is still a babi. "i have no doubt in my mind that in five year, thi will be the top asian film festiv in the world." the golden kinnare will be award on fridai. the festiv itself run until 24 januari.
