corbett attack 'dumb-down tv'

ronni corbett ha join fellow comedi star victoria wood and david jason in attack the declin standard of british televis programm.

speak to the radio time, the two ronni star said there is too much bad languag and realiti tv. "you get fed up watch show with not much care and love," he complain. corbett, soon to reunit with ronni barker for a new two ronni seri, also criticis quiz show like the bbc's thei think it's all over. "it's just laugh at each other and think, 'aren't we clever?'" said the 74-year-old comedian. corbett is the latest comedi star to bemoan the "dumb down" of modern tv programm. in an interview publish in the radio time in januari, victoria wood slate comedian sacha baron cohen for hi charact ali g's "horribl" brand of "victim" humour.

"with so mani good writer and good perform, it's a shame peopl can't just write a script and have other peopl learn it," she said. and last week onli fool and hors star david jason criticis british tv for be "too safe and too cheap". "we've got to be care not to dumb down for the audienc," he said. "thei shouldn't be sit at home on the sofa veget." corbett said he and barker were alwai mind of their famili audienc while make the two ronni. "our materi wa good-natur," he said. "we knew what would upset the averag man in the street. "there's a lot of swear on tv todai. thei even have documentari with the f-word."

corbett goe on to criticis "realiti programm where thei put peopl in a hous for a fortnight and film them do everyth". the two ronni ran from 1971 to 1987 and attract 17 million viewer at it peak. it bespectacl star will return later thi year in the two ronni sketchbook, which will combin classic sketch with newli record materi. corbett claim he and barker differ from todai's celebr in that thei did not allow their success to go to their head. "we were never temperament, fractiou or walk out slam door," he said. "we were fussi though," he ad. "we want everyth done properli."
