how the academi award flourish

the 77th annual academi award ar take place on 27 februari with the star of the movi-make world onc again hold their breath to discov who will be shower with the honour thi year. but from humbl begin, how did the modern dai extravaganza becom the behemoth it is todai?

how it all start the first academi award were hand out in 1929 at a compar low-kei dinner held at the hollywood roosevelt hotel - just over the road from their modern dai home.

just 250 guest attend with ticket price at $5.

the first film to win wa wing, which star clara bow in the onli silent movi to win the big award. for the first 10 year or so, the winner list wa hand to the newspap so thei could publish them at 11pm, but in 1940 the winner were publish in the lo angel time at 8.45pm mean guest enter the ceremoni knew alreadi knew the result. as a result the seal envelop system wa introduc, lead to the secreci and suspens-fill night that happen todai. when and where the tradit of hold the award at a banquet continu until 1942 but with increas interest came a grow guest list and it becam impract to host it as a dinner.

the ceremoni were then transfer to theatr with the famou grauman's chines theatr the first to host the expand event. other venu includ the dorothi chandler pavilion and the shrine auditorium. thei ar now held at the kodak theatr, which open in 2002 just across the road from it origin home and hold 6,000 peopl. until 1954 thei were held on a thursdai, then swap around from mondai to wednesdai befor sundai night wa settl on, although the month swap from mai to april to march and now it current month of februari. the first televis ceremoni wa in 1953, with bob hope as the mc. who wa oscar? there is no solid evid as to how the trophi becam to be known as oscar.

on popular stori is that academi librarian margaret herrick said the statu look like her uncl oscar. a journalist appar overheard thi convers and us the phrase in an articl.

the first time it is thought to have been us in print wa when columnist sidnei skolski us it to describ katherin hepburn's first best actress win in 1934. the academi offici adopt the nicknam in 1939. the trophi wa design by mgm art director cedric gibbon. sinc it incept 2,530 oscar have been hand out. in support of the war effort, the academi hand out plaster oscar statuett dure wwii. after the war, winner exchang the plaster award for the real thing. fifti-five statu were stolen in en rout to the award in 2000, 52 were recov nine dai later. winner were unaffect as a new batch wa rush out. who sit in judgement? the academi wa set up in 1927 as a non-profit organis with 36 member from differ film disciplin. dougla fairbank sr wa the first presid and oversaw the first award. there ar now 5,700 member of the academi - with membership by invit onli to those who ar seen to have achiev distinct in the movi and ar therefor seen as fit to judg their peer. some of the criteria for admitt includ: film credit that reflect the high standard of the academi, receipt of an academi award nomin, achiev of uniqu distinct, earn of special merit, or make an outstand contribut to film. the star who left empti-hand while mani of the biggest film and movi-maker have been honour by the academi, there is still surpris at those that did not receiv ani nomin that later went on to becom classic.

among the overlook film were hobson's choic, dirti harri, the 39 step, the searcher and king kong. actor that fail to win for their icon role includ al jolson in the jazz singer (1927), humphrei bogart in casablanca (1944), gene kelli in sing in the rain (1952) and henri fonda in 12 angri men (1957). alfr hitchcock also fail to win an award despit five nomin. hi endur influenc on the horror genr wa final recognis with an honorari gong in 1968. the show alwai goe on not even war ha halt the glitter hollywood event. there were call for it to be cancel in 2003 dure the war in iraq, but as it didn't stop dure world war ii or the vietnam war.

documentari winner michael moor ensur nobodi forgot about the iraq war though and us hi accept speech to criticis the american invas. the ceremoni wa mute with the glitz turn down and mani femal star opt for demur dark dress. the ceremoni ha been postpon on three occas. lo angel flood in 1938 saw it put back a week. the death of martin luther king saw it postpon for two dai in 1968 as a mark of respect and there wa a 24-hour delai follow the assassin attempt on presid ronald reagan. controversi and other gaff three peopl have refus oscar, includ actor georg c scott who said the whole thing wa "demean". writer dudlei nichol refus hi academi award in 1935 for hi screenplai for the insid becaus the writer' guild wa strike at the time. marlon brando turn down hi best actor oscar for the godfath in 1973 in protest as hollywood's appar discrimin against nativ american peopl. he sent along a woman call sacheen littlefeath to collect hi award. she wa later reveal to be nativ american actress maria cruz.

the follow year robert opal interrupt proceed when he streak, flash a peac sign as well as everyth els. the tv network manag to pan awai and avoid too much nuditi. opal wa murder in 1979. frank capra wa the butt of on major gaff in 1934 when the host open out best pictur envelop and declar "come on up and get it, frank" to which frank capra bound up to the stage befor realis that he had meant frank lloyd had won for cavalcad.

capra vow he would never to go the award again but went the follow year to collect hi award for it happen on night.
