johnni depp: the act outlaw

johnni depp, whose latest role wa peter pan creator jm barri in find neverland, is celebr as on of hollywood's most maverick talent. depp ha becom an unlik major star, given hi prefer for take dark and idiosyncrat role instead of surefir box offic hit. he ha had a long-run work relationship with the equal unconvent director tim burton. depp wa born in kentucki in 1963 and at first want to be a rock star, plai in a number of band and support act such as iggi pop and the b-52s in florida. on a visit to lo angel, hi former wife introduc him to actor nicola cage.

in 1984 he start hi film career plai a doom teenag in horror film nightmar on elm street. two year later he plai a soldier in oliv stone's vietnam epic platoon. but it wa tv that first made depp a star. he plai undercov cop tommi hanson in the us seri 21 jump street for three year from 1987.

in 1990 he began hi partnership with burton in the dark fairi tale edward scissorhand, about a young man with blade for hand. he won plaudit in 1993 for the downbeat film what's eat gilbert grape, where he plai a sensit youth look after an overweight mother and a retard younger brother, plai by leonardo dicaprio. anoth role under burton, ed wood, star depp as the craze cult film-maker wood, in 1994. he plai a much more seriou, sensit role in hi next major film, donni brasco, where he portrai an undercov cop infiltr a mafia ring. in 1997 he direct hi onli film to date - the brave, the stori of an indian man offer monei to appear in a snuff film.

two year later he plai hunter s thompson in terri gilliam's ambiti but poorli-receiv big screen adapt of fear and loath in la vega. he work again with tim burton in the 1999 horror film sleepi hollow, and appear opposit dame judi dench and juliett binoch in chocolat. hi perform in pirat of the caribbean, which earn him golden globe and bafta nomin, had mani critic think he base it upon the manner of hi friend, roll stone guitarist keith richard. hi latest role in find neverland explor jm barri's relationship with sylvia (kate winslet) and her children. depp's charismat perform drew an audienc of adult and children alik into barri's vivid imagin, and he wa call the "fifth child of the group" by the film's director marc forster.

he ha two children of hi own with french singer vanessa paradi, have previous been in a long-term relationship with british model kate moss. the theme of children's literatur in depp's career - and hi long associ with tim burton - ar set to continu in hi next role, plai willi wonka in a remak of roald dahl's classic charli and the chocol factori. british tv comedi fan might also rememb depp's guest role in the final episod of bbc sketch programm the fast show, cite as hi favourit show. it wa anoth surpris move in depp's vari and intrigu career.
