uk 'world's biggest music buyer'

uk consum ar the biggest music buyer in the world, accord to new figur releas on tuesdai by the british phonograph industri (bpi).

but global sale of record music were flat in 2004, with grow sale in dvd music video offset by onlin and physic piraci in major market. the uk music industri record an overal 3% increas in volum sale, mostli due to it robust album market. howev, world music sale declin by 1.3% to $33.6 billion (£17.7 billion). the uk cd album market grew by 4.5% in 2004 with a record 174.6 million unit sold. on averag everi briton bui 3.2 cd per person per year.

around 26,000 album ar releas in the uk each year, make britain second onli to the us in term of the number of releas. overal sale were driven by new uk-sign artist such as kean, kati melua and scissor sister, whose debut album sold almost 1.6 million copi in the uk. "a slew of great new british artist have met uk music fan' demand for great music," said bpi chairman peter jameson. the best-sell album global wa usher's confess - on of eight album to sell more than five million copi in 2004.

the growth in the dvd market and a sharp increas in sale of digit music ensur a strong market in the us. the total number of track download last year were up more than tenfold on 2003. digit sale in the us in the first two month of 2005 ar alreadi more than doubl that of the same period in 2004.

howev, some market in continent europ and asia - notabl sweden, finland, franc, spain and south korea - have been drastic hit by internet piraci. australia, itali and the netherland also saw a declin. "on the posit side digit sale ar boom," said john kennedi, chief execut of the intern feder of phonograph industri (ifpi). "howev, commerci piraci and illeg file-share ar continu to depress our market. "the prioriti in the come year is to step up the advanc of legitim digit sale and sustain our anti-piraci effort." "the main choic todai's music fan now ha to make is whether to get music legal or illeg," ad mr jameson.
