vera drake lead uk oscar hope

mike leigh's film vera drake will lead british hope at thi year's academi award after get three nomin.

imelda staunton wa nomin for best actress for her role in the abort drama, while leigh receiv nod for best director and origin screenplai. kate winslet wa also nomin in the best actress categori for her role in etern sunshin of the spotless mind. and clive owen and sophi okonedo both got nomin for support role in closer and hotel rwanda respect. owen ha alreadi been made bookmak' favourit for best support actor for the role in closer that ha alreadi clinch him a golden globe award.

and it is the first nomin for actress okonedo, chosen for her perform in hotel rwanda, about the 1994 rwandan genocid. it is also a debut nomin for staunton, 49, who told bbc new 24 she had not thought the film would appeal to academi voter. "it wa an extraordinari time make the film and i can't believ what ha happen thi morn," she said. "i hope it just show mike up to be the extraordinari filmmak he is. "we ar also deal with a veri difficult subject matter and it is amaz to have it accept in thi wai." leigh, who had previous receiv three oscar nomin for secret and li and topsi turvi, told bbc new 24 the latest success wa "amaz". he said: "we hope that imelda staunton would get a nomin but i never expect to get director and screenplai. it's just absolut wonder.

"i think peopl ar awar that it's about life - and i hope it is the warmth and compass that realli talk to peopl." winslet said she wa "ecstat" about the fourth nomin of her career. "be nomin mean so much to me. to be nomin for a film that wa releas a while ago, i feel so honour and overwhelm," she said. john woodward, chief execut of the uk film council, said it wa "extrem hearten" to see british filmmak talent recognis on the global stage. "britain ha a huge talent industri and these nomin show why nation lotteri invest in film pai major dividend for our cultur and economi." among a total of 24 british nomine, compos andrew lloyd webber and lyricist charl hart ar up for best origin song for learn to be lone, from the phantom of the opera movi.

cinematograph john mathieson, who wa nomin for gladiat in 2001, is also up for the phantom of the opera. and find neverland ha garner two more nomin for brit. gemma jackson, who ha also work on bridget jone's diari and iri, is up for art direct while costum design alexandra byrn, whose previou film have includ captain corelli's mandolin and elizabeth, is in the run. the uk ha two contend in the best live action short film categori. wasp wa made by ex-children's tv present andrea arnold while littl terrorist is the work of ashvin kumar. thi year's award will be hand out in hollywood on 27 februari.
