bene make award breakthrough

film actress annett bene is up for an oscar for her star role in the award-win film be julia.

bene, who wa born in texa in 1958, ha gain promin for a string of kei role. although an oscar ha so far elud her, her statu as on of hollywood's favourit actress remain solid. on of the biggest oscar buzz in recent year wa for bene's role as troubl carolyn burnham in 1999's american beauti. but her delici neurot portray of surburban life turn sour wa overlook in favour of hilari swank's lead role in boi don't cry. after open her career in the theatr - and gain a toni award nomin in 1986 - bene had a low-kei spell in televis. she then made her film debut as a sex-starv wife in 1988's the great outdoor, opposit comic dan akroyd and john candi.

follow a cameo in postcard from the edg, bene's breakthrough role came in 1990, plai seduct con artist myra langtri in the grifter - a role that won her an oscar nomin. despit some rave review, bene did not win the best support actress academi award.

howev the high-profil perform enabl bene to captur role in a number of big budget hollywood product, co-star with some of hollywood's greatest player, includ robert de niro and harrison ford. but it wa her role opposit warren beatti in 1991 gangster flick bugsi which had the greatest impact. bene plai virginia hill, anoth role which won her high critic acclaim, but the film onli pick up two of a stagger 12 oscar nomin.

bugsi wa the start of a veri signific liaison for bene - she marri beatti, with whom she had a child as the coupl promot the film in europ. the coupl now have four children togeth. a pair of contrast yet success perform pepper bene's career in the mid-1990s. she plai michael dougla' opposit number in romant comedi the american presid, and as a "fieri" queen elizabeth i in a contemporari adapt of shakespear's richard iii.

bene wa the first choic to plai the femal lead in american beauti, director sam mend' film debut which wa a critic and commerci success - but the actress had to be content with a bafta award for her strong perform. but current film be julia ha made bene an award-win actress rather than the perenni nomine, with success at the golden globe. the witti tale of reveng and love set in 1930s london see the eponym theatric diva - plai by bene - grow tire of her success and fall for a young american - and could be the role which final win her the covet academi award.
