oscar steer clear of controversi

the oscar nomin list ha left out some of the most controversi film of the past year in favour of safer, less contenti cinema.

if best film nomine were drawn on the basi of column inch, two of the front-runner would have had to be michael moor's bush-bait documentari fahrenheit 9/11 and mel gibson's the passion of the christ. both film polaris opinion but had critic talk, and the public turn up to see them - fahrenheit 9/11 break us box offic record for a documentari, and the passion of the christ make more than us$370m (£196m) in the us alon. but thi year's academi award have shi awai from the big name controversi, with the passion of the christ - a film accus of be anti-semit - receiv nomin onli in the 'minor' categori of cinematographi, makeup and music score.

fahrenheit 9/11 ha also been overlook, despit win the palm d'or at the cann intern film festiv in 2004.

moor's caustic documentari mai have been affect by it distributor' decis to enter it in the best pictur categori, rather than best documentari, sai tim dam, the new editor of trade magazin screen intern. but he also believ the strong polit viewpoint of moor's film doe not sit well with the academi. "if you look at past oscar winner and nomine, the veri conserv oscar voter tend to go for veri conserv, epic-style pictur. fahrenheit 9/11 didn't realli fit in to that categori. "thei tend to go for film like titan, gladiat, and the lord of the ring, film with scale that often aren't too contenti," he said. while he said the oscar vote panel were not "snub" moor's film, he thought it wa unlik a documentari could ever serious compet in a best film categori. "i think it's more a misjudg by the peopl put it out rather than a deliber snub," he said.

the problem with mel gibson's film, he believ, wa that the vote panel mai have been cautiou in nomin a film with dialogu in arama, an ancient middl eastern languag.

"hollywood doesn't tend to like foreign-languag film - no-on's ever tri do a film in a dead languag," he said. but asid from these two film, some potenti contenti pictur have won nomin. the german film the downfal, a biopic trace the final dai of nazi leader adolf hitler in hi berlin bunker, ha been recognis in the best foreign film categori. the film ha caus some controversi in show hitler as a fallibl but human man, rather than a semi-mythic, histor monster. but mr dam said: "it's not an inflammatori film. it ha done veri well in germani, and it's a film that portrai hitler as a human rather than some kind of devil or monster." anoth 'contenti' film, mr dam said, ha gain a nomin in the best documentari section through the forc of it charm.

independ film-maker morgan spurlock mai have forc fast-food giant mcdonald to withdraw it 'super size' portion in the us after he went on a month-long diet eat noth but mcdonald meal - and film hi progress.

the film ha been a hit around the world. mr dam said: "it's a polit film, but it's quit fun and punki and well-pace. "morgan spurlock is a realli likeabl gui. it's a veri access film, and it doesn't beat you over the head with it view. "while in fahrenheit 9/11 there ar moment of comedi, i think the wai that super size me is put togeth - the fact it's a veri likeabl film - mean it's won through on charm." dam's pick at thi year's oscar? the aviat, martin scorses's biopic of aviat pioneer and hollywood player howard hugh. tinseltown, it seem, like noth more than a pictur about on of it own.
