film on war triumph at sundanc

a studi of the unit state at war in the past 50 year ha pick up on of the main award at the 2005 sundanc film festiv in utah, in the us.

why we fight scoop the grand juri prize for documentari at the world's lead independ film festiv. british director sean mcallist's the liberac of baghdad - about a pianist in war-torn iraq - won a special prize in the world documentari categori. both why we fight and the liberac of baghdad were made for the bbc. why we fight is due to be screen on bbc four in march.

the sundanc festiv wa found by actor robert redford in 1981. thi year's festiv - which end on sundai after a 11-dai run - ha been domin by the theme of war and polit. in the new world cinema drama categori, the angolan film the hero triumph to win the grand juri prize. the film - an angolan/french/portugues product - tell the stori of a veteran of the countri's civil war who return home to face a new battl of surviv. twelv film compet in the new world cinema documentari categori focus on countri and peopl under sieg.

finnish film the three room of melancholia look at the war in chechnya and shake hand with the devil: the journei of romeo dallair tell the stori of a un mission to rwanda dure the 1994 genocid. but it wa dutch documentari shape of the moon - a studi of an extend famili in indonesia - which took the top prize. meanwhil, french-isra product wall, which look at israel's controversi secur wall separ it from the palestinian territori, pick up a world cinema special juri prize for documentari. in the main drama categori, forti shade of blue wa name winner of the grand juri prize. the film tell the tale of a forbidden tug-of-love between a father, hi russian immigr girlfriend and hi son.

dure it 24-year histori, the sundanc film festiv ha showcas success such as reservoir dog, the blair witch project and the full monti. last year's festiv provid a platform for hit such as open water, napoleon dynamit, garden state and super-size me. the festiv is held in the mountain resort of park citi, east of salt lake citi, which see it popul rise from 7,500 to 45,000 dure the festiv.
