casino royal is next bond movi

casino royal, author ian fleme's first jame bond book, is to be the next bond film, with goldeney director martin campbel behind the camera.

it will be the 21st jame bond film to hit the big screen, and specul ha been rife over who will plai the lead. casino royal wa turn into a spoof spy movi by john huston in 1967, with david niven in the lead role. pierc brosnan led the past four bond film but said produc ax him after offer him the chanc to return. among the favourit to take over the covet role ar scottish actor dougrai scott, oscar nomine clive owen and australian star hugh jackman. produc sai no decis ha yet been made on who will becom the seventh actor, includ niven, to plai bond on film. kill bill director quentin tarantino had talk of want to take on the casino royal project, and said he had spoken to brosnan about it.

shoot on casino royal is expect to begin onc campbel ha finish work on the legend of zorro, a sequel to the mask of zorro, star catherin zeta jone and antonio bandera. produc barbara broccoli and michael g wilson expect the film to be releas in 2006.

the script will onc again be develop by neal purvi and robert wade who have both work on two previou bond movi. fleme's book saw the introduct of bond pit against a russian spy in a game of baccarat. simultan, a woman arriv on the scene to take hi ey off the game. the novel is on of fleme's most violent and sadist stori, with 007 suffer a savag beat from hi nemesi le chiffr. in addit to the 1967 film, it wa also adapt for televis in 1954 with actor barri nelson as an americanis "jimmi" bond. mgm vice chairman chri mcgurk said: "martin (campbel) is an incred excit film-maker. goldeney wa a wonder movi and help reinvigor the bond franchis. we're thrill to have him back to direct the newest bond." new zealand-born campbel move to the uk in 1966 and direct tv seri such as the profession, minder and bergerac. hi film credit includ edg of dark, vertic limit and beyond border, which star angelina joli and clive owen.
