vera drake's bafta triumph hope

at the bafta film award on saturdai night, there is the prospect that a home-grown movi could walk off with a clutch of trophi.

vera drake, mike leigh's tale about a 1950s backstreet abortionist, is nomin in 11 categori. these includ best film, best director and best actress shortlist for imelda staunton who plai the eponym charact. the film ha spent month be laud with prize, from the venic film festiv to five award from the london critic' circl on wednesdai night.

the bafta ha a tradit of honour british cinema, and thi year vera drake is the obviou candid to be heap with prais. empir magazin's review editor dan jolin said the film had "a veri good chanc" of do well on saturdai, predict that it would collect five or six award. "i don't think it's go to do a lord of the ring-style sweep, but imelda staunton is a shoo-in for best actress," he said.

"a best director prize for mike leigh and best british film ar also like and it could steal some award from heavili-nomin competitor the aviat and find neverland." mr jolin tip anoth contend - most like the aviat - to walk awai with the bafta for best film, and ad that find neverland had been lavish with nomin but not trophi. strong oscar contend million dollar babi and sidewai did not figur in the bafta nomin, give vera drake greater potenti to walk awai with the big prize.

"there is a sens that thi film is our and we should slap our own gui on the back. out of all the film in the run for the bafta, vera drake is the true blue british on."

"if mike leigh is go to win award for anyth, it should be vera drake at thi year's bafta", said mr jolin, ad that the film wa probabl hi most technic accomplish and lavish work yet. mr jolin also tip phil davi for a best support actor prize for hi role in vera drake but felt that heather cranei could be outdon by kate winslet or natali portman in the support actress categori. "if there is anywher where thi film is go to win, it will be at the bafta," he said.

the guardian's film critic peter bradshaw felt that there "might well be" a sweep of award for vera drake on saturdai night. "i hope that bafta voter will respond to the extrem high standard of act from the whole cast of the film. if bafta can't do so, what hope is there?" he said. mr bradshaw felt that mike leigh's "masterpiec" wa entitl to the best film award - leav dead man's shoe, harri potter and the prison of azkaban, my summer of love and shaun of the dead to slug it out for the best british film trophi. "i will be cheer if vera drake win a whole host of award," he ad.
