roundabout continu nostalgia trip

the new big-screen version of the magic roundabout, releas in the uk on fridai, is the latest attempt to turn children's televis into box-offic gold.

recent year have seen a less-than-success adapt of the 1960s puppet show thunderbird and a moder success version of e nesbit's five children and it, previous film by the bbc in 1991. he-man and transform, which were cartoon favourit in the 1980s, will soon receiv their own costli makeov. with screen version of the a-team, the duke of hazzard and even blake's seven on the card, nostalgia is clearli big busi. but some critic complain that these expens take on icon seri of yesteryear do not match up to our fond memori of the origin. the new version of the magic roundabout, which will be releas as sprung! in the us, replac the stop-motion model of the 1960s tv show with polish, comput-gener anim.

in a similar fashion, the 2004 thunderbird us human actor and special effect in place of the origin's puppet and model. the film ar squar pitch at younger audienc. pop star robbi william and kyli minogu provid voic in the magic roundabout, while the now-defunct boi band bust perform the thunderbird theme song. but while some review have been won over, there ha nonetheless been a signific backlash. "thi cg-anim adventur airbrush the sly charm and trippi otherworldli which made the 60s stop-motion roundabout a cult hit," write stella papamichael on the bbc movi site.

and the recent puppet comedi team america: world polic wa in part provok by it director' outrag that gerri anderson's thunderbird wa remad without it signatur mannequin. dan jolin, review editor of empir magazin, sai classic children's tv show have a built-in audienc that make them ideal for reinvent.

"i can understand why peopl ar take these intellectu properti and repackag them for the kid of todai. "but i think it's backfir. what's next - the clanger on some distant planet, with some giant cgi soup dragon chase after them?" despit thunderbird' disappoint global box-offic perform - the film cost $42m (£22m) but onli recoup $21m (£11m) - the nostalgia craze show no sign of abat. it can therefor be onli a matter of time befor some other tv favourit receiv the hollywood treatment.

after the success of garfield: the movi, britain's shabbi tabbi

sure deserv hi own film vehicl. with onli 13 episod made of the 1974 seri, there is plenti of room to explor the live of the pink cat, professor yaffl and the mice of the marvel mechan mous organ.

furri recycl

have alreadi had on big-screen out - 1977's wombl free. but with environment issu still occupi our thought it is high time thei made a comeback. advanc in special effect technolog could do wonder for the bbc's supernatur comedi

. and the success of pirat of the caribbean must sure herald a comeback for tv's most popular cartoon buccan,

. it might also remind viewer the lewd charact name often associ with the show never actual exist.

the magic roundabout is out in the uk on 11 februari.



how about bring catweazl to the big screen? he could give gandalf a run for hi monei!

thundercat!! i love it. should be fun to see on the big screen, if some effort is put in! it will bring my youth back!

get your hand off the clanger! is noth sacr?

make a movi version of the banana split!

what about keanu reev and richard gere in a remak of the wooden top? or perhap robbi william could get hi much moot act career off the ground by take on the role of andi pandi.

you forgot to mention the grearest of them all, danger mous! but then again, it couldn't be better than the origin seri, could it?

it's alwai nice to see these old toon re-releas, but after the abysm thunderbird movi (and the song!) i think i've been complet put off. just leav these classic alon as good memori.

i think remak ar a good idea. as the world move on peopl tend to look more and more into the past to thing that make them feel safe. i believ thi is the whole reason "retro" ha becom so popular. as long as a remak doe justic to the origin then all it can do is creat a wider audienc and possibl entic a new gener of person to enjoi and reviv and old seri. person i'd like to see cartoon such as transform, thundercat and m.a.s.k. get full hollywood remak.

leav them alon, why ruin someth that we all have veri fond memori of in the first place? the thunderbird film wa apal, not a patch on the puppet seri i grew up with and the magic roundabout will never be the same without the voic of eric thompson.

love to see transform with real actor and cgi. and make it at least a 15 rate.

part of the reason for the success of such classic as the magic roundabout wa that the charact were not the sweet and cuddli creatur that you would expect. thei were moodi, sarcast, and rather human. just look at the pictur of the anim for the new film show that these characterist have not been preserv. dougal never smile like that! film of thi sort have an unfortun habit of disneyfi everth, and thei just lose the real magic that made the show special in the first place.

i have fond memori of bod (not least of which becaus i look like him) and would like to see someon attempt to make it into a film. it's got all the right materi for an american blockbust - no plot and no stori. bod would like be plai by tom cruis and would undoubtedli have a girlfriend or two.

it's all veri well and good remak these classic tv show and film with all the latest technolog for a 'new' audienc, but for me a lot of the origin charm is lost when thei do thi, and seem more like a monei make exercis to cash in on the origin success of the programm than reinvent or improv it. it mayb that to an audienc who have never seen the origin thei can watch them without prejudic, but to peopl who have grown up with all these show such as thunderbird and magic roundabout which ar part of our childhood, thei ar never go to live up to expect. it doe pose the question though that with all the long line of remak be made, ar film-maker run out of origin idea?

all i can sai is bring back danger mous, probabl the greatest kid' show ever. i recent re-watch some episod and realis that there wa a level of humour shown in danger mous that wa complet lost on me when i wa a child.

there wa a new captain pugwash cartoon made a coupl of year back. again, like so mani of these nostalgia programm, the anim - thi time comput creat flat-cell like anim - fail to match the origin's cut out paper techniqu for invent, and wa woefulli inadequ. we live in a sampl world - the music industri ha been pluder past decad for inspir, clip sound from 20 year ago is much cheaper and easier that do someth new. seem that the film and tv is do the same now - it's just cheaper to take idea from the past and rework them, rather than be dare and try someth new.

it got to be mr.benn. the stori line about a man who chang in a fanci dress shop, step into a door wai and appear in anoth time and place would be amaz! if thei got a decent produc and writer the stori line could be great. and who to plai the lead role? well if it wa a comedi then it would have to be someon like steve martin. if it go to be an adventur then johnni depp plai a role similar to the pirat of the caribbean charact.

muffin the mule perhap ? after all, granni and grandpa go to the cinema as well you know!

why can't the british film industri try make gerri anderson's ufo or captain scarlet, or saphir and steel, or the tomorrow peopl.

in todai's media, it seem the past is the futur. tv show such as battlestar galactica have new remak, dj's ar sampl or re-work 70's and 80's music. even comput game from 10-15 year ago ar get modern re-work. person, i think it show that no on ha ani origin ani more! why not just leav our misti-ei nostalgia alon.

mari, mungo and midg. but of cours for most of the episod the lift would be out of order and thei would have to us the stair. plu would mari be more of a vicki pollard charact as she live in a high rise council block? yeah but no but i wasn't even there!

i'd like to see mr. benn, with brad pitt in the titl role. sean conneri could plai the mysteri costum shop owner.

it demonstr a profound lack of imagin in todai's film-maker that thei continu try to remak and remodel the past in an effort to cash in on nostalgia. there ar plani of modern children's book that would make excel film or tv programm, why not us them instead of rehash the past?

mr. benn with rowan atkinson as the lead.

would have love to see dungeon & dragon made, but unfortun the film that it wa made into didn't come up to scratch. the onli on that isn't to be remad as yet is thundercat, which i'd like to see.

i'm an expat live in norwai, and i recent went through a period of bui the dvd of mani of my favourit children's program for my 2 daughter. my dearest wish, howev, is to see a featur length version of noggin the nog appear on the big screen!! veri scandinavian...

rainbow!

i believ that children classic should be left well alon, and i will not be surpris if the magic roundabout doe not do well at the box offic, especi sinc it will be go up against the spongebob squarep movi, popular among children becaus it's origin, witti, and modern. the magic roundabout will never appeal to the children of todai as it did all those mani year ago.

how about classic like chorlton and the wheeli, rentaghost, terrahawk, bod.....oh the list could go on and on!!!

if a transform movi is inde on the card then i'll be the first on on amazon bui a copi, eagerli wait at the front door with a frothi mouth and a nervou twitch. repackag my childhood and sell it to me at an extortion price! i don't care! till then i'll have to make do with the citreon c4 advert.

i'd luv to see willow the wisp on the big screen but sadli without the late kenneth william do the voic it wouldnt be the same. and who rememb trap door voic by the late willi rushden, superb children's programm. could morph hold hi own in a big screen movi??? or even jami and the magic torch....hmmmmm, i could go on and on. danger mous? at 34 i'm show my ag. :-)

noggin the nog wa on of the best children's program. the problem with bring it to the big screen is that no-on could approach oliv postgat's wonder voic. so in gener leav well alon. the origin ar good becaus thei ar of their time and the method us ar an integr part of the stori.

just imagin what could be achiev by us cgi in a remak of fingerbob... the alreadi disturb hand antic of the beard hippi, yoffi could take on a whole new level with a more life-like fingermous

bob the builder, postman pat and fireman sam togeth in an epic adventur of fire, post and brick. in the ultim struggl to save the women thei love from the evil clown, krusti and gobo. will thei triumph or will thei fail miser? find out thi fall.

on puppet show that i person would love to see made into a live action movi is joe 90. it would be worth the price of admiss alon to see the larg screen version of joe's car. of cours, gerri anderson's supermarion is a rich seam of materi worthi of big-screen, big-budget action. it wa onli that thunderbird the movi wa target as a children't movi that realli let it down. after all, the children that rememb those show with such affect ar now the parent of children themselv.

it's onli becaus the peopl who were children when these programm were first shown have grown up and ar plunder their childhood, isn't it? i'd hate to see bagpuss with perfect anim - i love that 'done in a shed' clunki and you couldn't recreat the magic. perhap if the remak were done in a 'look around you' mock-authent style i might be interest ...

chorton and the wheeli or jami and hi magic torch; that would be mega!

thi re-gurgit of old film and tv show make me angri - it is corpor lazi rest on the safeti of other peopl's idea, becaus it guarante to bring in the $$$. the same can be said of modern dai pop band who releas other peopl materi, will young etc. the sad fact is nostalgia sell big buck in the short-term. the fact that thei will be forgotten in 6 month time is irrelev (e.g. starski & hutch) henc, the market is satur with thi mindless drivel, but it can onli be stop if peopl stop bui it!

i prai thei never do a remak of chorlton and the wheeli. i'm onli 27 and don't rememb the seri from when it wa on tv, but have the set on dvd and it's a classic. the fact it's so great come from the fact that there were veri few special effect involv and compar to todai's stuff it look amateurish. that the appeal though, it's so innoc (like chorlton himself) and it would be a real shame if thei did remak it.
