star shine on bafta red carpet

hollywood star brought a touch of glamour to london on saturdai for the biggest night in the british film calendar.

cate blanchett, leonardo dicaprio and richard gere were just some of the actor who attend the 2005 bafta film award. thei emerg from limo at leicest squar to an uncertain british climat that threaten rain on moment and promis late winter sunshin the next. but the god were certainli shine on the thousand of film fan who line the red carpet to meet their idol. scream built up into a crescendo as more and more big name star appear. the biggest cheer of the night wa reserv for the aviat star leonardo dicaprio, who paus in the chilli februari air to sign autograph for the throng. he said the ear-pierc welcom wa "unlik anyth i've ever encount. it's veri intens and veri loud."

best actress winner imelda staunton, who wore a green chiffon dress that sparkl with sequin and bead, told the bbc new websit that vera drake wa the highlight of her career. her role as a backstreet abortionist in the gritti low-budget film ha alreadi led to a clutch of award and an oscar nomin. she said: "never in a million year did i think thi wa go to happen. "be here and just be nomin is great, but i hope it mean more peopl will go and see the film as well." root for staunton in the best actress categori wa cate blanchett, herself nomin for her support role as hollywood icon katherin hepburn in the aviat.

shiver in a floor-length shimmer armani dress, the australian-born actress stop to sign autograph and joke: "it's tight but i love it." glamour wa also brought to the even by actress sienna miller, supermodel claudia schiffer - who wa support her director husband matthew vaughn - troi actress dian kruger and star of the tv programm the oc, micha barton. wear a caramel-colour floati frock by the design alexand mcqueen, miller told report the red carpet experi wa "intens, nerv-wrack and cold". the younger star of british film were also repres in the shape of emma watson, who plai hermion in the harri potter film. the 14-year-old said she wa hope to meet dicaprio and keanu reev but joke that "thei ar probabl a littl too old for me".

actor christian slater, who is current star in on flew over the cuckoo's nest in london's west end, wa greet by cri of "christian, christian" by the ever vocal crowd. keanu reev, who present the best actress award, said be on the red carpet wa an "excit" part of hi job. "it is alwai surreal and when it is nice, it is nice," he said. martin scorses, whose movi the aviat went on to win best film, said be honour in the uk meant a lot to him. he said: "i am a great admir of british cinema sinc the 1930s and 40s, up until now.

"thei give me a new energi when i see the best come out of england and everi two or three year is a whole new cycl of tough and young film-maker, and even the older on ar make good film. "to recognis me in thi wai is a great honour." british actor clive owen, who ha won a golden globe and a bafta for hi support role in closer, said it "meant a lot" to be at the ceremoni. he said: "just to be here realli, at the bafta. the bottom line is it is a celebr of british film."
