bafta to hand out movi honour

movi star from across the globe ar attend thi year's bafta film award ceremoni.

british star imelda staunton and clive owen ar hope for award at the odeon in london's leicest squar. hollywood star leonardo dicaprio, pierc brosnan, christian slater and richard gere ar also in the audienc for the biggest night in uk film. hollywood blockbust the aviat, star dicaprio, lead the field with 14 nomin, includ best movi. it is up against etern sunshin of the spotless mind, find neverland, the motorcycl diari and british film vera drake, which ha 11 nomin.

staunton is on of the favourit to land the best actress award for her gritti role as a backstreet abortionist in the small-budget film. she arriv at the ceremoni wear a green silk and chiffon low cut even dress decor with bead. "it's love to be here at home, to be on british soil. it's veri nice inde," she told report.

ask whether she wa nervou about her best actress nomin she said: "it's out of my hand, there's noth i can do. i'm here with a lot of mate and we're go to have a veri nice even." other nomine in the best actress categori includ charliz theron for monster, ziyi zhang for hous of fly dagger and uk star kate winslet, who ha two nod for her role in etern sunshin of the spotless mind and find neverland. dicaprio face competit from bernal, jami foxx, jim carrei and johnni depp in the best actor categori. the crow scream when he arriv on the red carpet."it's unlik anyth i've ever encount. it's veri intens and veri loud," he told the bbc.

"it's the first time i've come to the bafta becaus it's the first time i've been nomin...i've appreci british cinema for a long time and to be recognis like thi is a special honour." gere, who is present the best film award, said: "it's a big parti, i had no idea it wa go to be thi big. it's crazi, i think it's bigger than the academi award."

british actor owen is hope to repeat hi golden globe success with a best support actor award for hi role in closer. he rais on of the biggest cheer of the night when he walk down the red carpet. "i wa alwai a huge fan of closer as a plai, so when i got the call to appear in the film, it wa a huge thrill for me," he said. "the whole experi ha been a treat and i'm veri fortun to have been given the role." hi co-star natali portman is up against blanchett, heather cranei, juli cristi and meryl streep in the best support actress categori. mike leigh is up for the best director award for vera drake, alongsid martin scorses for the aviat, michael mann for collater, michel gondri for etern sunshin of the spotless mind and marc forster for find neverland.

the orang british academi film award will be shown on bbc on at 2010 gmt.
