aviat and vera take bafta glori

hollywood blockbust the aviat and low-budget british movi vera drake have share the main honour at the 2005 bafta film award. the aviat wa declar best film, and it star cate blanchett won best support actress. but vera drake score best director for mike leigh while imelda staunton took the hotli contest best actress award. jami foxx won best actor for rai, while british actor clive owen took best support actor for closer. the two actor have repeat their success at the golden globe in januari. but big british hope kate winslet walk awai empti-hand on saturdai despit two nomin for best actress. celebr hi win, the oscar-nomin owen told report: "the whole award season is new to me becaus i haven't won anyth befor. all of that is a bit overwhelm." blanchett, who won a bafta in 1999 for her lead role in elizabeth, said: "win a bafta mean an enorm amount to me." she thank the woman she plai, katharin hepburn, for pave the wai for women to work in film. "thank you veri much, i'm sure you're pleas, although you're not abl to see thi," she said.

the aviat took four award in all, also collect best make-up and hair and product design, while vera drake also scoop best costum design. staunton, who is up for an oscar for her role in vera drake, arriv wear a green silk and chiffon bead even dress. "thank you veri much. i'm so thrill and so grate and i'm delight that the success of vera drake ha boost sale of hair net and pinni, which is veri good," she said on accept her award. her director leigh, who beat martin scorses to the best director award, told the audienc: "we alwai sai it wa a surpris and sometim i've said it and not meant it. on thi occas, given the other name, it's a real surpris and an extraordinari honour. "it's an immens privileg to have been allow the freedom to make as uncompromis a film as i think vera drake is and an epic with such a small budget." best actor foxx could not make the ceremoni, but actress helen mirren read out hi accept speech. "i'm honour and proud to receiv thi bafta. i'd like to thank the late rai charl himself." he apologis for not be in london, joke: "unfortun i'm stuck drive a car in la at gunpoint and i can't get awai." dicaprio, who lost out on the best actor bafta to foxx, will face him again at the academi award in two week' time.

"it's the first time i've come to the bafta becaus it's the first time i've been nomin," he told report on the red carpet. "i've appreci british cinema for a long time and to be recognis like thi is a special honour." other winner includ the motorcycl diari which took best foreign film and best music, while etern sunshin of the spotless mind won best origin screenplai and best edit. best british film wa my summer of love, the stori of two young women and their develop relationship, while foxx's movi rai, a bio-pic of late singer rai charl, also took best sound. harri potter and the prison of azkaban won the orang film of the year, vote for by the public.

the orang british academi film award ar be shown on bbc on from 2010 gmt.
