film star fox behind theatr bid

lead actor edward fox is on of the men behind plan to reopen a swansea theatr thought to be wale' oldest.

the star of film and tv hit dai of the jackal and edward and mr simpson ha join forc with swansea-born actor-director terri palmer. thei will set up a chariti to rais monei to bui the palac theatr, and hope to reopen it to audienc in summer 2006. it is estim that £500,000 is need to bui the grade ii list build. the palac theatr, which will be known as the pavilion repertori theatr, wa sold to an undisclos bidder at auction 13 month ago for £340,000. befor that it had been us as a nightclub for 10 year.

oscar-winner sir anthoni hopkin, who wa born in nearbi port talbot, made hi profession debut there, and charli chaplin and lili langtri have also trodden it board. fox told the south wale even post that after visit the theatr he wa surpris by it beauti. "a lot of monei need to be spent on it, but all the bone ar there - it just need a beauti skin," he said.

"to call it a jewel is not an over-estim. there ar not mani theatr left like thi. "the hope for the immedi futur is that we can attract enough peopl to come forward to allow it to prosper," he told the newspap.

fox first found fame in the 1960s. on of hi most memor role wa as an assassin in the dai of the jackal in 1973, and he won a tv bafta as the princ of wale in 1980 for edward and mr simpson. he wa brought on board to save the theatr by mr palmer, a long-stand friend of 40 year. "two year ago i decid to return to swansea and do someth for the citi," said mr palmer. he said he wa excit by the idea of run the palac as a chariti where young actor could develop, and with an annual shakespear festiv in the summer. "if in five year' time the theatr can function in all area without me, i shall be well satisfi have help to creat a vital live theatr for the citi," he ad. keith poulton, a busi advis from swansea, ha alreadi commit an undisclos amount of monei to the project. "we need at least £75,000 to secur a deposit on the build and we've onli got two month to do that," said mr poulton. "a few benefactor have express their interest and mr fox is go to give it an aw lot of time," he ad. last year, road around the theatr were cordon off when masonri from it roof fell onto a car, but engin said thei were happi that it wa safe.
