oscar nomine lack pull power

thi year's clutch of oscar nomine have been the least popular for 20 year accord to box offic figur.

in the us the five nomin for best film have been seen by 50% fewer peopl than movi in previou year. while the award ar not base on box offic popular there is concern for the rate of the televis ceremoni. "we don't have a titan or a lord of the ring out there. i think it's fair to sai it doe concern us a bit," said academi execut director bruce davi. about 51 million peopl in the us have seen thi year's nomine, compar with between 100 million and 118 million in recent year. the last time combin attend wa so low wa in 1984 when amadeu beat the kill field, a passag to india, place in the heart and a soldier's stori to best pictur, when 41 million saw the five film. last year's ceremoni attract the highest audienc in four year as viewer tune in to see lord of the ring: return of the king sweep the board.

and the show reap it biggest audienc in 1997 when titan took home 11 oscar.

the film had taken $500m (£264m) worldwid befor the ceremoni, and eventu took $1.8bn (£952m). "eyebal star at the movi screen translat to eyebal stare at the tv screen," said paul dergarabedian of box offic tracker exhibitor relat. "peopl like to have a vest interest in what thei're watch. "when titan doe $1.8bn in worldwid box offic, you've got a lot of peopl with a vest interest." past year have also seen blockbust such as save privat ryan, forrest gump and ghost compet for oscar. the biggest box offic hitter among thi year's nomine is the aviat, which ha taken $90m (£48m) in the us, although take in the uk have reach onli £7m so far.

low-budget move sidewai and find neverland have so far gross about $45m (£24m) each. the year's biggest blockbust do actual featur in the oscar nomine but in the anim categori. shrek 2 and the incred took $436m (£231m) while the incred took $259m (£137m). mel gibson's the passion of the christ, which took $370m (£196m) in the us, wa larg ignor by academi voter.

but mani in the film industri do not equat award and box offic success. "i have never equat the academi award with how much monei a movi take in," said nikki rocco, head of distribut at univers which releas nomine rai. "that's the peopl's choic award. thi is not about the public. thi is about the industri bestow award on what thei think ar the best film of the year."
