us 'afflict' with award fatigu

the film world and media mai be wild about the oscar but cinema-goer and the tv-view public ar sick of watch award ceremoni, accord to some la film critic.

bob strauss, from the la daili new, think there ar just too mani televis gather of star shower prais on each other. he came up with a colour but unprint descript for these glitzi event, which roughli translat a "celebr love-in". thi echo the view of oscar host and comedian chri rock, who whip up a media storm for sai he rare watch them, call award show "idiot". "as chri rock accur said, thei're about celebr and fashion," mr strauss said. the recent grammi music award prove to be a rate loser, and it seem oscar organis ar determin not to go the same wai.

recent announc chang to the ceremoni includ line up all five nomine on stage befor announc the winner.

unsurprisingli, thi prompt press specul that the chang were aim at boost flag advertis revenu. but entertain weekli's dave karger maintain the oscar onli gener excit outsid the industri when a blockbust, such as titan or lord of the ring, wa nomin. the near constant flow of us film award, repres director, actor and produc' guild, also mean "few surpris" ar left by the time the oscar ceremoni is upon us, he said. a quick scan of the lo angel time and lo angel daili new bear thi out - specul about who will win seem to have ground to a halt.

on thursdai, the time simpli print a pictur of the plastic tent go up outsid the kodak theatr to protect the red carpet from rain. varieti and the hollywood report have also kept their focu firmli on industri-relat new, while in the uk bet have close on the best actor categori, with rai star jami foxx a dead cert to win.

screen intern's us editor mike goodridg think 2004's film have simpli not grab the public's imagin. "film-maker haven't produc film that peopl ador thi year," he said. "thei ador save privat ryan for exampl - peopl love it and it made a ton of monei. "2004's film could be a reaction to 9/11 - there wa a realis in america that thing might not be so rosi after all. "audienc don't necessarili want to see darker film such as million dollar babi, aviat and find neverland, which end with casualti." as to whether rock could pep up the award, the critic were not hope.

mr strauss doubt whether rock would make an impact, but ad: "i'm all for lower rate though - there ar far more import thing go on than the oscar." mr karger said the comic might boost younger viewer, but mike goodridg thought rock's humour could prompt america's conserv state to switch off. so despit all thi, did the critic have ani view on who would win?

"clint eastwood's million dollar babi affect peopl emotion, which is why it will beat aviat, which wa about technic artistri not feel," mr karger said. "eastwood ha it in the bag," ad mr strauss. "oscar voter often vote with their heart not their head." and mr goodridg said best film and director were between martin scorses's aviat and million dollar babi. mr karger, whose favourit film of the year wa mike leigh's abort drama vera drake, stai upbeat about the award despit hi other comment. "i hope thi is the year for small film to triumph," he said. "after all, it's still on of the biggest tv event of the year."
