briton win short film oscar

three of the five nomine in the live-action short film categori at thi year's oscar were british. for andrea arnold, who won the categori, ashvin kumar and gari mckendri the past month ha thrust them from rel obscur into the limelight.

arnold's gritti drama wasp is about a singl mother live on the breadlin, while kumar's littl terrorist follow a young pakistani muslim boi, who get stuck on the wrong side of the heavili arm indian border. mckendri's entri, everyth in thi countri must, forc british soldier and cathol to challeng their relationship dure the troubl in northern ireland. last week, the trio attend an offici screen of all the nomin short film at the academi's headquart in beverli hill. "i felt so privileg to have a thousand peopl watch my film on the biggest screen i've ever seen," sai arnold.

set in her nativ dartford, wasp tell the stori of a young mum, who, unabl to find a babysitt, leav her four young daughter outsid a pub while she's on a date. the imag that spark the film wa that of a wasp crawl into a babi's mouth. "the other nomine said thei made their film for thi reason or that - thei had someth to sai. but i just start with an imag i can't shake off, work outward from that and see what come out," she explain.

sinc she present children's tv show number 73 and motormouth in the 1980s, arnold ha kept a low profil and is have troubl adapt to thi sudden onslaught of attent. "i'm not interest in the public. it's not my person. i'm overwhelm by all the fuss," she said.

"it's all a bit like a beauti contest - all the film ar great and so differ. "but even though my film ha won 30 award worldwid (includ on at sundanc last month), i'd still be proud of it - even if it hadn't won ani." ask what the nomin mean to her, arnold sai she feel "flatter and honour". "we've all been overwhelm by the respons and can't get it in perspect yet. i'm still reel."

and she won't commit to an opinion of hollywood yet. "i'm just in the middl of it, live moment to moment, dai to dai." but despit her reserv about the academi award and the media frenzi that surround it, she accept that it ha open door for her. "peopl will definit listen to what i want to do now, and the phone didn't stop ring for a week after i got nomin." as for the futur, arnold firmli believ that you often get a stronger vision of the world with short film. "you're left more to your own devic, without peopl interf as much." that said, she is current work on a featur film with dogvil and dancer in the dark director lar von trier.
