eastwood's babi scoop top oscar

clint eastwood's million dollar babi beat martin scorses's the aviat to the top award at the oscar on sundai.

the box drama wa name best pictur and eastwood pip scorses to best director, while it star hilari swank and morgan freeman won act award. the aviat took five prize includ best support actress for cate blanchett. the biopic of howard hugh led the nomin with 11. jami foxx pick up best actor for plai soul star rai charl in rai. mani expect thi to be scorses's year - but he wa unsuccess in the best director categori for the fifth time in hi career.

he ha never won despit be nomin for such film as rage bull and goodfella. instead, eastwood took hi second oscar for best director after win for unforgiven in 1993. "it wa a wonder adventur," eastwood said. "to make a pictur in 37 dai, it take a well oil machin. i am lucki to be here and lucki to be still work. i've got a lot of stuff to do yet." hilari swank pick up her second best actress oscar for plai a femal boxer in million dollar babi, beat star includ annett bene, kate winslet and imelda staunton. "i don't know what i did in thi life to deserv thi," she told the audienc. "i'm just a girl from a trailer park who had a dream." morgan freeman beat actor includ clive owen, jami foxx and alan alda to the prize for best support actor. he thank eastwood and describ the film as "a labour of love". thi wa the fourth nomin of hi career but hi first win. backstag, he said: "a lot of peopl sai you're due - mayb you ar, mayb you aren't - it's an accolad." million dollar babi's success wa the night's biggest surpris after the aviat seem to have the advantag until the end of the ceremoni.

cate blanchett, who won for plai late screen legend katharin hepburn in the aviat, said her award wa "an indescrib surpris and honour". of hepburn, she said: "the longev of her career is inspir to everyon." blanchett also paid tribut to the film's director martin scorses, tell him: "i hope my son will marri your daughter." the aviat's other award came for cinematographi, film edit, art direct and costum design. and jami foxx, who had two nomin thi year, paid tribut to the "beauti legaci" of soul legend rai charl, who di last year, and thank director taylor hackford. "you took a chanc, man," he said. "that love for rai charl wa deep down in the earth somewher and you open it up. "everybodi's drown in thi love. thank you for take a chanc and thank you for wait 15 year to get me to do it."

he broke down in tear when speak about be whip by hi grandmoth, whom he describ as hi first act teacher, when he wa young. in other award, cartoon hit the incred won best anim featur and best sound edit. bittersweet comedi sidewai won best adapt screenplai while the origin screenplai prize went to etern sunshin of the spotless mind. born into brothel, about the children of prostitut in calcutta, wa name best documentari, the sea insid wa name best foreign languag film and find neverland got the accolad for best music score. spider-man 2 triumph in the visual effect categori, rai won best sound mix and lemoni snicket's a seri of unfortun event pick up best make-up. former british tv present andrea arnold, who host children's show motormouth and number 73 in the 1980s, won best short film for wasp. comedian chri rock, who host the ceremoni for the first time, receiv a stand ovat befor get the show under wai.
