british star deni major oscar

british hope of win major oscar were dash as uk star fail to win act and direct prize.

despit three nomin, mike leigh's vera drake fail to take the director or screenplai award and there wa no prize for star imelda staunton. kate winslet also lost to best actress hilari swank, while clive owen and sophi okonedo fail to win best support actor award. the uk's andrea arnold won the short film award for her gritti drama wasp.

arnold, who present children's televis show number 73 and motormouth in the 1980s, said it wa "total overwhelm" to win. wasp tell the stori of a singl mother live on the breadlin, beat film by fellow uk nomine gari mckendri and ashvin kumar.

"everyon work extrem hard - thei know who thei ar," arnold said as she accept the prize. "the beer ar on me when we get home." earlier british costum design sandi powel won the oscar for the aviat, beat find neverland's uk design alexandra byrn in the process. "i'm veri thrill for the film and all the peopl who work with me," said ms powel. "hopefulli i'll be stai up to celebr - i've been sick for three dai and want to make it through the night." the british visual effect team behind harri potter and the prison of azkaban were less fortun, howev, lose the oscar in that categori to spider-man 2. befor sundai's ceremoni owen wa bookmak' favourit for hi role in romant drama closer that had alreadi clinch him a golden globe award. it wa the first time actress okonedo had been shortlist, chosen for her perform in hotel rwanda about the 1994 rwandan genocid. it wa also a debut nomin for staunton, 49, who plai abortionist vera drake in mike leigh's film.

leigh had previous receiv three oscar nomin for secret and li and topsi turvi. winslet said she wa "ecstat" about the fourth oscar nomin of her career, thi time for her lead role in etern sunshin of the spotless mind. among other british talent nomin for oscar, compos andrew lloyd webber and lyricist charl hart were nomin for best origin song for learn to be lone, from the phantom of the opera movi. that award wa won by al otro lado del rio from the motorcycl diari. cinematograph john mathieson, who wa nomin for gladiat in 2001, wa also up for the phantom of the opera but lost to the aviat. find neverland garner anoth nomin for british talent, with gemma jackson shortlist for the art direct prize. she lost in that categori to the aviat. a spokesman for the uk film council said: "it is disappoint not to have more british winner." he ad: "it wa extraordinari to have 24 british nomine in the initi list of nomine."
