jackson film 'absolut disast'

a pr expert ha told the michael jackson child abus trial that the tv documentari at the heart of the case wa an "absolut disast".

ann kite told the court in the californian town of santa maria she wa hire to "crisi manag" the fallout after the programm had air in 2003. juror saw the film, in which the pop star held hand with the alleg victim, on tuesdai. mr jackson deni 10 charg of child abus and fals imprison. if convict, he could face up to 21 year in prison.

ms kite suggest jackson's associ had been intent on launch a smear campaign against the accus's famili after the air of martin bashir's film live with michael jackson. she told the court that in the aftermath of the broadcast, a jackson lawyer had told her the boi's mother would be made to look like a "crack whore". jackson's defenc question ms kite's credibl, point that she work for the singer's team for less than a week befor be fire, and had never met or spoken to the star.

ms kite said she receiv a phone call on 13 februari 2003 from a jackson associ, marc schaffel, who said the boi and hi famili had left the neverland ranch where thei had been stai.

ms kite told the court she had later ask jackson's lawyer, david legrand, what had happen. "i said, `don't make me believ that these peopl were hunt down like dog and brought back to the ranch'," she said. ms kite began to work for mr jackson in februari 2003, after the controversi film wa televis in the us and europ. the documentari spark a media storm and the subsequ investig into mr jackson's relationship with the boi. in the film, the singer said he did not see anyth wrong with share a bed with a child.

question by the prosecut, ms kite said her plan had been to move media coverag of the star awai from a focu on hi human frailti to concentr more on hi music geniu. ms kite said that an addit problem wa the releas of document relat to a previou alleg of child abus against mr jackson. the smoke gun websit public wa "beyond disast", ms kite said. correspond sai the refer is import becaus it wa unclear whether the prosecut would be abl to bring up the previou case in front of the juri.

the judg is studi whether the prosecut's first wit, report martin bashir, is in contempt of court. the defenc protest after mr bashir, who interview jackson for the tv documentari, refus to answer nearli all their question, cite a california "shield" law intend to allow journalist to protect their sourc. in the prosecut's open statement on mondai, tom sneddon told the court that mr jackson had shown the boi porn and pli him with wine, in order to molest him. he said the singer had visit sexual explicit websit and show the boi - who wa 13 at the time - and hi younger brother pornographi at hi ranch.
