halloween writer debra hill di

screenwrit and produc debra hill, best known for her work on the 70s horror classic halloween, ha di in lo angel ag 54.

hill, who had been suffer from cancer, co-wrote the 1978 film, which star jami lee curti as a babysitt terroris by a psychopath. direct by john carpent, it made over $60m (£31.3m) worldwid - a record for independ film at that time. hill also work with carpent on escap from new york and the fog. born in new jersei, hill began her career as a product assist and work her wai through the rank, becom an assist director and second-unit director befor she began collabor with carpent.

she wa regard by mani as a pioneer woman in film, take on job in the 70s that were more commonli taken by men. "back when i start in 1974, there were veri few women in the industri," she said in 2003. "i wa assum to be the make-up and hair person, or the script person. i wa never assum to be the writer or produc." "i took a look around and realis there weren't that mani women, so i had to carv a nich for myself." carpent said that work with hill wa "on of the greatest experi of my life". "the ground that she trailblaz in the begin can now be follow by anyon. she wa incred capabl and talent," he said. carpent and hill collabor on a number of halloween sequel, includ halloween ii, halloween: resurrect and halloween: the curs of michael myer.

later in her career, hill form a product compani with her friend lynda obst, make a string of hit film includ oscar nomine the fisher king and teen comedi adventur in babysit. other film includ the stephen king adapt the dead zone in 1983 and 1985's clue, a comedi base on the board game cluedo. in the 90s she pursu work in tv, although she wa reunit with carpent in 1996 for escap from la, the sequel to escap from new york. at the time of her death she wa work on a film about the last two men pull from the rubbl of the twin tower follow the 11 septemb terror attack in 2001. she wa also co-produc the remak of the fog, which is due for releas earli next year.
