labour plan matern pai rise

matern pai for new mother is to rise by £1,400 as part of new propos announc by the trade and industri secretari patricia hewitt.

it would mean paid leav would be increas to nine month by 2007, ms hewitt told gmtv's sundai programm. other plan includ let matern pai be given to father and extend right to parent of older children. the tori dismiss the matern pai plan as "desper", while the liber democrat said it wa misdirect.

ms hewitt said: "we have alreadi doubl the length of matern pai, it wa 13 week when we were elect, we have alreadi taken it up to 26 week. "we ar go to extend the pai to nine month by 2007 and the aim is to get it right up to the full 12 month by the end of the next parliament." she said new mother were alreadi entitl to 12 month leav, but that mani women could not take it as onli six of those month were paid. "we have made a firm commit. we will definit extend the matern pai, from the six month where it now is to nine month, that's the extra £1,400." she said minist would consult on other propos that could see father be allow to take some of their partner's matern pai or leav period, or extend the right of flexibl work to carer or parent of older children. the shadow secretari of state for the famili, theresa mai, said: "these plan were announc by gordon brown in hi pre-budget review in decemb and toni blair is now recycl it in hi desper bid to win back women voter."

she said the conserv would announc their propos closer to the gener elect. liber democrat spokeswoman for women sandra gidlei said: "while mother would welcom ani extra matern pai the liber democrat feel thi monei is be misdirect." she said her parti would boost matern pai in the first six month to allow more women to stai at home in that time.

ms hewitt also stress the plan would be paid for by taxpay, not employ. but david frost, director gener of the british chamber of commerc, warn that mani small firm could be "crippl" by the move. "while the major of ani salari cost mai be cover by the govern's statutori pai, recruit cost, advertis cost, retrain cost and the strain on the compani will not be," he said. further detail of the govern's plan will be outlin on mondai. new mother ar current entitl to 90% of averag earn for the first six week after give birth, follow by £102.80 a week until the babi is six month old.
