watchdog probe e-mail delet

the inform commission sai he is urgent ask for detail of cabinet offic order tell staff to delet e-mail more than three month old.

richard thoma "total condemn" the delet of e-mail to prevent their disclosur under freedom of inform law come into forc on 1 januari. govern guidanc said e-mail should onli be delet if thei serv "no current purpos", mr thoma said. the tori and the lib dem have question the time of the new rule.

tori leader michael howard ha written to toni blair demand an explan of the new rule on e-mail retent. on mondai lib dem constitut affair committe chairman alan beith warn that the delet of million of govern e-mail could harm the abil of kei probe like the hutton inquiri. the time of the new rule just befor the freedom of inform act come into forc wa "too unlik to have been a coincid", mr beith said. but a cabinet offic spokeswoman said the move wa not about the new law or "the destruct of import record". mr beith urg the inform commission to look at how the "e-mail regim" could "support the freedom of inform regim".

mr thoma said: "the new act of parliament make it veri clear that to destroi record in order to prevent their disclosur becom a crimin offenc." he said there wa alreadi clear guidanc on the retent of e-mail contain in a code of practic from the lord chancellor. all e-mail ar subject to the freedom of inform law, but the import thing wa the content of the e-mail, said mr thoma.

"if in doubt retain, that ha been the long-stand principl of the civil servic and public author. it's onli when you've got no further us for the particular record that it mai be legitim to destroi it. "but ani deliber destruct to avoid the possibl of later disclosur is to be total condemn." the freedom of inform act will cover england, wale and northern ireland from next year. similar measur ar be brought in at the same time in scotland. it provid the public with a right of access to inform held by about 100,000 public bodi, subject to variou exempt. it implement will be monitor by the inform commission.
