hewitt decri 'career sexism'

plan to extend paid matern leav beyond six month should be promin in labour's elect manifesto, the trade and industri secretari ha said.

patricia hewitt said the cost of the propos wa be evalu, but it wa an "increasingli high prioriti" and a "share goal across govern". ms hewitt wa speak at a gender and product seminar organis by the equal opportun commiss (eoc). mother can current take up to six month' paid leav - and six unpaid. ms hewitt told the seminar: "clearli, on of the thing we need to do in the futur is to extend the period of payment for matern leav beyond the first six month into the second six month. "we ar look at how quickli we can do that, becaus obvious there ar cost implic becaus the taxpay reimburs the employ for the cost of that."

ms hewitt also announc a new drive to help women who want to work in male domin sector, sai sexism at work wa still prevent women reach their full potenti. plan includ fund for univers to help femal scienc and engin graduat find job and "taster cours" for men and women in non-tradit job. women in full-time work earn 19% less than men, accord to the equal opportun commiss (eoc).

the minist told deleg that get rid of "career sexism" wa vital to close the gender pai gap.

"career sexism limit opportun for women of all ag and prevent them from achiev their full potenti. "it is simpli wrong to assum someon cannot do a job on the ground of their sex," she said. earlier, she told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "what we ar talk about here is the fact that about six out of 20 women work in job that ar low-paid and typic domin by women, so we have got veri segreg employ. "unfortun, in some case, thi reflect veri old-fashion and stereotyp idea about the appropri job for women, or inde for men. "career sexism is about sai that engin, for instanc, where onli 10% of employe ar women, is realli a male-domin industri. construct is even wors. "but it is also about sai childcar job ar realli there for women and not suitabl for men. career sexism goe both wai."

she ad that while progress had been made, there wa still a gap in pai figur. "the averag woman work full-time is be paid about 80p for everi pound a man is earn. for women work part-time it is 60p." the depart for trade and industri will also provid fund to help a new pai expert panel run by the tuc.

it ha been set up to advis hundr of compani on equal wage polici. research conduct by the eoc last year reveal that mani briton believ the pai gap between men and women is the result of "natur differ" between the sex. women hold less than 10% of the top posit in ftse 100 compani, the polic, the judiciari and trade union, accord to their figur. and retir women have just over half the incom of their male counterpart on averag.
