women mp reveal sexist taunt

women mp endur "shock" level of sexist abus at the hand of their male counterpart, a new studi show.

male mp pretend to juggl imaginari breast and jeer "melon" as women made common speech, research from birkbeck colleg were told. labour's yvett cooper said she found it hard to persuad common offici she wa a minist and not a secretari. some 83 mp gave their answer in 100 hour of tape interview for the studi "whose secretari ar you, minist".

the research team, under professor joni lovenduski, had set out to look at the achiev and experi of women at westminst. but what emerg wa complaint from mp of all parti of sexist barrack in the chamber, sexist insult and patronis assumpt about their abil. barbara follet, on of the so-call "blair babe" elect in 1997, told research: "i rememb some conserv - whenev a labour woman got up to speak thei would take their breast - imaginari breast - in their hand and wiggl them and sai 'melon' as we spoke." former liber democrat mp jacki ballard recal a stream of remark from a lead mp on topic such as women's leg or their sexual persuas. and ex-tori educ secretari gillian shepherd rememb how on of her male colleagu call all women "betti".

"when i said, 'look you know my name isn't betti', he said, 'ah but you're all the same, so i call you all betti'." harriet harman told research of the sheer hostil prompt by her advanc to the cabinet: "well, you've onli succeed becaus you're a woman." anoth current member of the cabinet sai she wa told: "oh, you've had a veri fast rise, who have you been sleep with?" even after the great influx of women mp at the 1997 gener elect, and greater number of women in the cabinet, femal mp often sai thei feel stuck on the edg of a male world.

liber democrat sarah teather, the most recent femal mp to be elect, told research: "lot of peopl sai it's like an old boi club. "i've alwai said to me it feel more like a teenag public school - you know a public school full of teenag." prof joni lovenduski, who conduct the studi with the help of margaret moran mp and a team of journalist, said she wa shock at the find. "we expect a bit of thi but noth like thi extent. we expect to find a coupl of shock episod." but she said there wa a differ between the experi of women befor the 1997 intak and afterward. thi wa mainli becaus there were more women present in parliament who were not prepar to "put up with" the sexist attitud thei came across, prof lovenduski said. but she ad: "some women, includ the women who came in 1997, receiv extraordinari treatment and i am not convinc that if the number of women chang back to what it wa befor 1997 that thing would not chang back. "what i think is shock to the gener public is that these thing go on in the hous of common." the interview ar to be place in the british librari as a histor record.
