campbel: e-mail row 'silli fuss'

ex-no 10 media chief alastair campbel is at the centr of a new polit row over an e-mail contain a four-letter outburst aim at bbc journalist.

mr campbel sent the missiv by mistak to bbc2's newsnight after it sought to question hi role in labour's controversi poster campaign. he later contact the show sai the origin e-mail had been sent in error and that it wa all a "silli fuss". mr campbel ha recent re-join labour's elect campaign.

the e-mail wa reveal the dai after peter mandelson, former labour minist and now a european commission, warn the bbc to steer awai from "demonis" mr campbel. mr campbel messag newsnight after the programm investig claim that labour's advertis agenc tbwa wa blame him for controversi over it campaign poster. the imag, includ on of fly pig and anoth of what critic claim depict tori leader michael howard as fagin, prompt accus of anti-semit, claim deni by labour.

mr campbel's e-mail, which wa appar intend for a parti offici, suggest thei should get trevor beatti, tbwa's boss, to issu a statement. in it, he said: "just spoke to trev. think tbwa shd give statement to newsnight sai parti and agenc work togeth well and nobodi here ha spoken to standard. poster done by by tbwa accord to polit brief. now fuck off and cover someth import you twat!" the e-mail wa sent by mistak to newsnight journalist andrew mcfadyen. realis hi error, mr campbel then e-mail mr mcfadyen point out the mistak, but suggest present jeremi paxman would have seen the funni side.

he said: "not veri good at thi e-mail blackberri malarkei. just look at log of sent messag, have realis e-mail meant for colleagu at tbwa ha gone to you. for the record, first three sentenc of email spot on. no row between me and trevor. "poster done by them accord to our brief. i dreamt up fly pig. pig not great but okai in the circ of tori promis tax cut and spend rise with the same monei. tbwa made product. "campbel swear shock. final sentenc of earlier e-mail probabl a bit colour and person consid we have never actual met but i'm sure you share the same sens of humour as your star present mr p. "never known such a silli fuss sinc the last silli fuss but there we go. must look forward not back."

later the prime minist's spokesman wa ask by journalist about hi view on mr campbel's us of abus languag. the spokesman said: "the person you ar refer to is capabl of speak for himself and he no longer work in govern." foreign secretari jack straw said he had alwai had "veri good and polit relat" with mr campbel, who he describ as "veri talent". but on the former spin doctor's us of languag, mr straw said: "i do know the odd journalist who ha occasion us the odd word that would probabl be inappropri in some circumst. mayb i mix with the wrong kind of journalist." liam fox, tori co-chairman, said the return of mr campbel wa a sign of new "sinist and underhand tactic" by labour.
