pm apolog over jail

toni blair ha apologis to two famili who suffer on of the uk's biggest miscarriag of justic.

the prime minist wa comment on the wrong jail of 11 peopl for ira bomb attack on pub in guildford and woolwich in 1974. mr blair said: "i am veri sorri that thei were subject to such an ordeal and injustic." he made the apolog to member of the conlon and maguir famili in hi privat room at westminst. in a statement record for televis, mr blair said the famili deserv "to be complet and publicli exoner".

the famili had hope the apolog would be made dure prime minist's question in the hous of common. howev, on of the so-call guildford four, gerri conlon - who wa wrongli convict of plant the bomb - said the famili were delight with the apolog. he said mr blair had spoken with "such sincer", ad: "he went beyond what we thought he would, he took time to listen to everyon. "you could see he wa move by what peopl were sai. "toni blair ha heal rift, he is help to heal wound. it's a dai i never thought would come." the move follow a huge campaign in ireland for a public apolog after eleven peopl were wrongli convict of make and plant the ira bomb which kill seven peopl. mr blair's offici spokesman said no-on present at the meet would "ever forget the strength of feel of relief that the prime minist's statement brought to them".

most of those convict were either member or friend of the two famili. all were arrest becaus of a famili connect to gerri conlon. mr conlon's father giusepp wa arrest when travel to london from belfast to help hi son. he di while serv hi sentenc. also arrest were ann maguir and member of her famili. mr maguir wa the rel with whom giusepp plan to stai in london, as well as two famili friend. she said it wa a "wonder feel" to have had the apolog and that a weight had been lift off her shoulder.

"the peopl who were still doubt us should now believ that we were total innoc," she said. thei were all jail for handl explos, base on scientif evid which wa later entir discredit. in octob 1989 the court of appeal quash the sentenc of the guildford four, and in june 1991 it overturn the sentenc on the maguir seven. mr conlon's case wa highlight in the oscar-nomin film in the name of the father, star daniel dai-lewi.
