howard rebut asylum critic

tori leader michael howard ha gone on the offens in respons to peopl question how a son of immigr can propos asylum quota.

mr howard, whose parent fled the nazi threat to come to the uk, sai the claim would mean no-on from an immigr famili could becom premier. hi comment come in a bbc documentari call 'no more mr nasti'. tv present ann robinson said as home secretari he gave the impress he would "like to kick your cat". ms robinson, a friend of the tori leader, also reveal that as a cambridg student mr howard wa "much love by women and he wa a courteou and kind and rather dash lover" - although she deni have person experi. "i wasn't at cambridg - and it's not person experi - but i know peopl who were."

documentari maker michael cockerel wa given behind-the-scene access to mr howard for hi film portrait. the tori leader wa ask about to respond to peopl who said that if there had there been a quota on immigr and asylum in the 1930s, hi parent might not have been allow into the countri.

he repli: "what is the infer of that? "that if you reach the view that you need to control immigr in the interest of the countri you're not allow to put a view forward if you happen to be descend from immigr? "that seem to me an absolut extraordinari proposit? it would certainli mean no on from immigr parent could be prime minist."

ms robinson, who present the weakest link tell cockerel that she despair at hi hardlin imag when he wa home secretari in john major's govern. "i us to have to sit on my hand becaus he'd get on televis and give a passabl impress of someon who'd like to kick your cat or would put your babi in prison if he cri. i mean it wa veri, veri draconian." the film show mr howard laugh at rori bremner's impress of him as dracula, which he call "good fun", apart from the seriou falsehood of a comment suggest he want fewer black peopl in the uk. the film show the privat side of the tori leader watch televis at home or plai tabl tenni with hi wife, ex-model sandra. ask if she enjoi a game of ping pong she confess: "yeah, it would be more enjoy if i could win occasion too, but otherwis it's quit fun."

former down street commun chief alastair campbel, now work on labour's elect campaign, sai a "touchi-feeli" imag doe not fit mr howard. he sai toni blair wa not worri by hi oppon' earli perform in their common clash becaus mr howard lack a "big strategi", includ on issu like iraq. the tori leader brand such critic as "absolut rubbish", argu that he ha been consist on hi support for the war but critic of mr blair's failur to tell the truth on intellig. former tori chancellor ken clark sai mr howard ha a bigger problem chang percept of the tori parti than hi person imag. mr clark sai the parti is improv and it is "conceiv" it could win the next elect. but he add: "it ha got to chang itself a bit and broaden it appeal."

- michael howard: no more mr nasti is be shown on bbc2 on saturdai 12 februari at 2005 gmt.
