blair reject tori terror offer

toni blair ha reject a conserv compromis offer that could have eas the passag of anti-terror legisl.

the tori want a sunset claus insert in the anti-terror bill that would have forc minist to revisit it in novemb. mr blair said the bill, which bring in hous arrest for terror suspect, had time limit safeguard alreadi. the tori sai thei will vote against it unless chang thei want ar agre. the lib dem also oppos the plan.

the govern ha alreadi given wai over the role of judg in hous arrest case.

mr blair's refus to accept the tori' sunset claus propos mean that the govern face concert opposit from all side in the lord. peer begin three dai of detail deliber on the bill on thursdai. the bill propos "control order", which as well as place terror suspect under hous arrest could mean curfew, tag or ban on telephon and internet us. these would replac current power to detain foreign terror suspect without trial, which the law lord have rule against as a breach of human right.

the tori want judici oversight of all control order, not just hous arrest. shadow home secretari david davi told bbc radio four's the world at on hi primari concern wa potenti miscarriag of justic. he said if someon wa wrongli given a control order it would act as a "recruit sergeant" for terrorist. he went on to sai: "if we don't get the amend we regard as essenti, includ the sunset claus, we will vote against the bill." in the common, mr howard said it would be "far better if the whole of the legisl wa subject to a sunset claus so parliament could consid it all in a proper wai instead of it be ramrod through". mr blair said the hous arrest power were alreadi go to be subject to a sunset claus becaus it wa annual renew.

the second, less stringent, type of control order would be subject to a court appeal within 14 dai and there would be a three-monthli report on their us by "an emin and independ person". "i believ (the new power) ar a proper balanc between the civil liberti of the subject and the necessari nation secur of thi countri that i will not put at risk," said mr blair. the lib dem plan to oppos the bill in the lord on thursdai. lib dem home affair spokesman mark oaten said: "there's a lot of talk left. i would be uneasi about support a veri bad bill even if it wa just for eight month." a spokeswoman for human right watch said it wa a "basic principl" that peopl should onli be punish after a fair trial. she ad: "have a judg impos those punish without a trial doe not sanitis them either."
