drink remark 'act as divers'

the first minist's statement that it wa okai to get drunk "onc in a while" ha divert attent from the real issu, it ha been claim.

jack law, chief execut of alcohol focu scotland, said jack mcconnel's comment wa "ill-advis". the media attent had help to move the focu from scotland's bing drink problem, mr law said. scotsman journalist hamish macdonel said he believ the bigger pictur had been "obscur" by the remark. mr mcconnel wa speak on mondai to more than 100 secondari pupil from school in the highland about the problem of bing drink and drink promot.

the on-sentenc comment wa immedi criticis by the scottish nation parti which accus him of encourag young peopl to get drunk. but the scottish execut ha insist mr mcconnel wa speak about adult and hi comment were "a recognit that peopl will get drunk". mr macdonel, polit editor of the scotsman, said: "i think we have to sai right at the outset that thi wa a veri stupid and ill-advis remark by the first minist. "if you come out with someth like thi, sai that by all mean get drunk, then you will be pillori for it." howev, he ad that "perhap mr mcconnel could feel rightli aggriev about the coverag".

mr macdonel said: "i think the problem here is that he did sai a lot more thing about bing drink and under ag drink. "but that whole side of thing ha been lost in the furor over on sentenc. i understand why, but i think there is a much bigger messag here that ha been obscur." mr law, from voluntari bodi alcohol focu scotland, believ damag had been done to scotland's fight against bing drink. he said he accept that young peopl drank and thei did have problem with drink. mr law ad: "i think the remark wa ill-advis - but these remark ar blown out of all proport and thei so easili misrepres what we ar try to do in scotland.

"we don't want to preach to young peopl, but we need to acknowledg that thei do drink problemat. "thi divert us from the real issu which ar about promot respons and reduc harm and inde tackl our drink cultur which is a cultur about bing drink and drunken." he said it wa vital that young peopl were properli inform about the risk incur to themselv and other when thei got drunk. mr macdonel said that the first minist should know by now that if he said thing which were "off the mark", thei were bound to "come back and bite him". he ad: "here, mr mcconnel wa talk in the highland to 100 teenag and everi word he said wa put out on a webcast by the scottish execut and then look at by other politician and report. "i think in thi instanc he ha done a lot of realli good thing and he will be regret thi remark."

the scottish nation parti's holyrood leader nicola sturgeon wrote to mr mcconnel on tuesdai accus him of an error of judgement and call for him to apologis for hi "ill-judg comment" and withdraw it immedi. in a furiou respons, the first minist said hi comment had been distort and taken out of context. he told ms sturgeon: "it is disappoint that you have contribut to thi distort by sai it is stagger that i 'should encourag young peopl to get drunk'. "that is complet untru. perhap it would have been wiser for you to find out what wa actual said befor you rush to repres my posit, undermin the conven of educ at highland council and insult the intellig of the young peopl i spoke with - all for the sake of a simpl soundbit."
