concern at school diploma plan

final appeal ar be made for the govern not to ditch the reform plan for england's secondari school put forward by the tomlinson report.

the govern's respons to the plan for a four-tier diploma to replac all exist 14-19 qualif is expect next week. some ar worri it could be scupper if, as toni blair and ruth kelli have suggest, gcse and a-level stai. sir mike tomlinson himself wa brief onli thi week. he is said to be feel more comfort about what the govern is like to sai than if he had read onli what wa in newspap in the earlier part of the week. but the govern wa said to be still rewrit it respons on fridai. "it will be a tragedi if the govern come through with a half-heart respons," said the chairman of the common educ select committe, labour mp barri sheerman.

hi main concern wa the report that there would be a diploma - but onli to replac exist vocat qualif. "we must tackl head-on the structur mess that is our secondari educ system," he wrote in the time educ supplement. "it is not the case that the academ stream in secondari is fine while the vocat rout is desper weak." the qualif and curriculum author (qca) ha also told the govern not to "compromis". the qca said the potenti "step-chang in particip and attain" lai in the integr of the whole diploma. "ani partial implement of the propos would, in our view, compromis that integr," said it chairman, sir anthoni greener. it is a sign of the qca's concern that it advic went to minist last decemb but wa publicis onli recent. but peopl understand that a white paper respons is govern polici and ha to command wider ministeri support than if it were come onli from the depart for educ and skill. thei mai be content if it doe not "close too mani door" in write - whatev spin is put on it.

the chief inspector of school, david bell, also said recent that gcse and a-level should go. "on of the reason why i'm so strongli in favour of these term disappear over time is that it's good for the symbol of chang to be seen right across the system," he said. "if we don't sai thi is a sea-chang in educ, we will miss a great opportun." univers and head teacher in both the independ and state sector have also back the tomlinson propos, which includ have higher grade at advanc level to differenti between the brightest student. a note of concern ha been express repeatedli by the employ' organis, the cbi, which complain of a lack of skill. in an attempt to address thi, the tomlinson plan is for test in "function" math and literaci - decidedli not gcse. it ha been suggest the govern will take step of some sort to meet firm' concern on thi score. anoth dissent is sir mike tomlinson's predecessor as chief school inspector, professor chri woodhead, who ha said there is no need for such a "massiv upheav". the conserv parti ha put forward plan to revert to a system of have onli the brightest percentag of student each year get the top a-level grade, no matter how well the other have done.
