blair back 'pre-elect budget'

toni blair ha back chancellor gordon brown's pre-budget report amid opposit claim he wa too bullish about the state of the uk economi.

in a speech in edinburgh, the prime minist said thursdai's report reinforc stabil and opportun. and that would be central to labour's next elect campaign, plan for which wa alreadi well advanc. mr brown earlier deni hi econom forecast were too optimist - but refus to rule out futur tax rise.

he told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "no politician should make the mistak that john major and hi colleagu made in 1992 of sai no matter what the circumst ar, thei can make all sort of guarante on everi individu thing.

"that is not what politician should do, it would not be respons to do." mr brown insist hi spend plan were "afford" and he could afford to be optimist becaus britain wa now a stabl, low-inflat economi and hous price were now stabilis. mr blair prais hi chancellor for hi role in creat econom stabil, which he said wa the "cornerston" of labour's programm.

in a speech at edinburgh's napier univers, he said labour would publish over the next few month "a rich agenda for futur polici in ani possibl third term".

"in everi area of work there is a detail plan for the futur, much clearer than those in 1997 or 2001. all of it fit togeth around common theme of opportun, secur and stabil for all," mr blair said. in hi pre-budget report, mr brown surpris some citi expert by forecast uk growth at between 3% and 3.5% for next year. mani believ the figur is more like to be under 3% - and fear tax rise or spend cut, sai tax receipt have been overestim. carl emmerson, from the institut for fiscal studi, told bbc new: "he think everyth will come out in the wash and it will, in fact, be ok. we're not so sure." david page, of investec secur, said: "hi forecast that he will meet the golden rule with a margin of £8bn is wai too optimist. "it's go to take a signific turnaround in the economi to meet these target."

conserv shadow chancellor oliv letwin said: "i can't find a singl econom forecast from the imf to the institut of fiscal studi who believ anyth other than the chancellor ha got a black hole in hi financ. "in order to deal with that he will have to rais tax after the next gener elect." mr letwin accus the chancellor of us "fanci statist" to hide public servic failur. vincent cabl, for the liber democrat, call on mr brown to open up the govern's book to the nation audit offic, to see if he had met hi "golden rule". "it is veri clear that there ar some seriou loos end in govern public spend," mr cabl told mp.
