nat insur to rise, sai tori

nation insur will be rais if labour win the next elect, tori leader michael howard ha claim.

toni blair ha said he doe not want higher tax rate for top earner but on wednesdai said other tax promis would be left to labour's manifesto. prime minist's question also saw mr blair predict that new plan would probabl cut net immigr. he attack tori plan to process asylum claim abroad - but mr howard said labour had propos the idea too.

the common question session again saw the leader of the two biggest parti shape up for the forthcom elect campaign. the tori have promis £4bn in tax cut but have yet to sai where thei will fall. mr howard point to the institut for fiscal studi' predict that labour will need to increas tax to cover an £11bn gap in it spend plan. he accus minist of wast monei on unsuccess attempt to curb bad behaviour and truanci in school and on slow asylum process. it wa no good mr blair claim tax pledg were be left to the manifesto as he had given on to mp on tuesdai about the top rate of incom tax, argu mr howard. point to nation insur, he ad: "everyon know tax will go up under labour: isn't it now clear which tax it would be?"

mr blair instead hail labour's achiev in us a strong economi to invest in public servic. "when we have monei not onli go into extra teacher and nurs but equip in school and hospit, that monei is not wast," he said. on the tax question, he ad: "we will make commit on tax at the time of the manifesto." home secretari charl clark thi week publish plan for a new point system for econom migrant, with onli high-skill worker allow into the uk from outsid the european union.

mr blair said abus would be weed out and chain migrat, where famili automat get the right to settl with immigr worker, would end. that would probabl creat a fall in the migrant number, he said. the prime minist ridicul the tori plan for asylum quota and for process all asylum claim oversea. he challeng the tori on which countri would hous their process centr - what he call a "fantasi island". mr howard read from a letter about the govern's own plan at the european council of minist for process asylum seeker outsid the eu. but mr blair said: "all the other countri could not agre on the wai forward, nor could the un."
