butler launch attack on blair

former civil servic chief lord butler ha criticis the wai toni blair's govern oper, accus it of be obsess with headlin.

he also attack the wai the iraq war wa "sold" to the public, with import warn on the strength of the intellig left out. tori leader michael howard said lord butler had given the "most damag testimoni" he could rememb. but down street said mr blair should be judg by result not hi style.

lord butler said mr blair bypass the cabinet and reli instead on small, inform group of advis to help him make decis. the prime minist's offici spokesman said the cabinet wa still us to achiev a consensu on import issu. but he ad: "you cannot, in a modern govern, take everi decis in cabinet. it's just not possibl."

lord butler said the govern had too much freedom to "bring in bad bill" and "to do whatev it like" and it reli too much on the advic of polit appointe. the former cabinet secretari said in an interview with the spectat magazin: "i would be critic of the present govern in that there is too much emphasi on sell, there is too much central control and there is too littl of what i would describ as reason deliber which bring in all the argument." mr howard describ lord butler's intervent as "veri import". "thi is from someon who wa an insid at the veri heart of the blair govern. "it is certainli the most damag testimoni i can ever rememb from someon in such an emin posit."

lord butler's report earlier thi year into iraq intellig said the govern's septemb 2002 weapon dossier did not make clear intellig about claim that saddam hussein had stockpil of chemic and biolog weapon wa "veri thin". the reason for thi is that it would have weaken minist' case for war, lord butler said in hi spectat interview, which wa conduct by the magazin's editor, conserv mp bori johnson. he said: "when civil servant give materi to minist, thei sai these ar the conclus we've drawn, but we've got to tell you the evid we've got is pretti thin. "similarli, if you ar give someth to the unit nation and the countri you should warn them."

ask why he thought the warn were not there lord butler said: "on ha got to rememb what the purpos of the dossier wa. the purpos of the dossier wa to persuad the british why the govern thought iraq wa a veri seriou threat."

when ask whether he thought the countri wa well-govern on the whole, he repli: "well. i think we ar a countri where we suffer veri badli from parliament not have suffici control over the execut, and that is a veri grave flaw. "we should be break awai from the parti whip. the execut is much too free to bring in a huge number of extrem bad bill, a huge amount of regul and to do whatev it like - and whatev it like is what will get the best headlin tomorrow. "all that is part of what is bad govern in thi countri." lord butler's assess wa back by hi predecessor as cabinet secretari, lord armstrong. lord armstrong told bbc two's newsnight: "i agre ... there doesn't appear to be the sort of inform collect polit judgement brought to bear on decis-make that those affect by decis ar entitl to expect." liber democrat deputi leader menzi campbel said he thought lord butler's comment were "well justifi" and mr blair's style of leadership wa "corros of the whole system of govern". but labour former minist jack cunningham accus lord butler of base hi comment on the first eight month of the incom labour administr, when he wa cabinet secretari. mr cunningham told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "taken togeth, robin butler's comment ar partial, inaccur and cannot be taken as anyth other than polit bias against the labour govern."
