uk set to cut back on embassi

nine oversea embassi and high commiss will close in an effort to save monei, uk foreign secretari jack straw ha announc.

the bahama, east timor, madagascar and swaziland ar among the area affect by the biggest shake-up for the diplomat servic for year. other diplomat post ar be turn over to local staff. mr straw said the move would save £6m a year to free up cash for prioriti such as fight terror.

honorari consul will be appoint in some of the area affect by the embassi closur. nine consul or consul gener will also be close, mostli in europ and america.

thei includ dalla in the us, bordeaux in franc and oporto in portug, with local staff replac uk represent in anoth 11. the chang ar due to be put in place befor the end of 2006, with most save made from cut staff and run cost. some of the monei will have to be us to fund redund payment. in a written statement, mr straw said: "the save made will help to underpin higher prioriti work in line with the foreign and commonwealth offic's strateg prioriti, includ counter- prolifer, counter-terror, energi and climat chang. "some of the save will also be redeploi to strateg prioriti work within certain region where we ar close post. "in africa, for instanc, we plan to creat new job to cover these issu across the region, with a new post in nairobi to help support our work on climat chang, on in nigeria to cover energi and on in pretoria to cover region issu more gener as well as cover maseru and mbaban."

the foreign offic current ha about 6,100 uk-base staff. it ha open major new mission on baghdad and basra in iraq, kabul in afghanistan and pyongyang in north korea sinc 1997 in respons to what the govern sai ar chang need. sinc 1997 10 oversea post have been close - exclud wednesdai's cut - but 18 new embassi or consul have been open. the shake-up is aim at help make £86m in effici save between 2005 and 2008. the chancellor ha demand all govern depart make similar save. shadow foreign secretari michael ancram said there wa a constant need to ensur valu for monei from foreign mission. "but the govern must give a far clearer reason for make the dramat chang it ha announc and must show that british commerci interest and the interest of briton abroad will not be advers affect," he said.
