labour target 'hardcor truant'

a fresh crackdown on persist truant in england ha been launch by educ secretari ruth kelli.

serial truant make up on in 13 pupil. previou initi brought 40,000 pupil back to school sinc 1997, accord to offici statist. parent contract, penalti notic and "fast track" prosecut system have been us to tackl what ha been a stubborn problem. it is thought that nearli half a million children skip school each dai. tori sai labour's previou success regard the issu came becaus it tackl the easi part of the problem by reduc authoris absenc, where parent ar permit to take children out of school. such absenc ar often due to famili holidai.

howev, serial truant avoid the classroom despit govern scheme cost £885m. those miss class ar more like to becom involv in crime as well as fail academ. measur such as parent contract and penalti notic were adopt by most local educ author last term and come into forc in the remaind thi term. in on local educ author alon 800 parent were warn thei would receiv a penalti notic unless their child's attend improv. the tough stanc paid off with just 24 issu, while attend improv in 776 case. truanci ha been reduc by 5% at the 128 worst hit school through the govern's behaviour improv programm. thi is the equival of 200 pupil back in class sinc septemb.

the new measur come on top of nation truanci sweep - the sixth of which will take place on mondai. polic and educ welfar offic patrol problem hotspot pick up truant and return them to school. held twice each year, in addit to routin local patrol, previou countri-wide sweep have apprehend 31,000 pupil dodg school. in almost 14,000 of those case, the youngster were accompani by their parent. a depart for educ and skill sourc said: "everi dai in school count. "it is clear form these figur that school and local educ author ar now seiz the tool we have given them to improv school attend and crack down hard on the veri small number of pupil which account for almost half of the nation's truanci."
