blunkett sorri over murder plan

david blunkett ha apologis to mp after the home offic announc "prematur" via press releas a review of murder law.

the home secretari confirm the review wa to get under wai in the wake of a law commiss report which brand the current murder law as "a mess". he said the review would look at partial defenc to murder, includ provoc and at mandatori sentenc. the home offic ha alreadi said the review will begin next year.

on wednesdai, a home offic spokeswoman said the term of refer for the review had not been establish but it wa like to includ onli england and wale. new of the review wa releas becaus it wa thought mr blunkett would make the offici announc in a common debat on wednesdai. but the announc never came, with the home secretari sai the debat had never reach that stage. amid opposit anger, mr blunkett had to answer an emerg question in parliament on thursdai. he said he had taken step to ensur the incid wa not repeat. shadow home secretari david davi welcom hi "graciou apolog" and the review itself. but he argu the minist should have volunt a formal statement instead of have to be "drag" to face mp.

in it report, the law commiss said it had found wide support among crimin justic profession for an end to the mandatori life sentenc for murder. the panel suggest differ kind of murder could be "grade" to recognis the serious of the offenc.

but the home offic said mandatori life sentenc would not be abolish and argu court alreadi had flexibl. the commiss, an independ bodi includ two judg, a senior barrist and sentenc expert, had been ask to consid reform to the defenc of provoc in murder case. but it said it propos were unlik to work without a far wider review of the law. result of a consult exercis show 64 respond out of 146 - among them 21 judg - believ a mandatori life sentenc for everi murder wa "indefens and should ceas".

a kei question wa whether on categori should continu to cover all type of murder from merci kill to serial or contract kill. the commiss found support for the idea of grade murder so that the sentenc reflect the serious of the offenc. but speak after the report wa publish, home offic minist baro scotland said: "murder is the most seriou of crime and we have no intent of abolish the mandatori life sentenc. "where an offend is convict of murder, the court must pass a life sentenc." the commiss also recommend tighten the law so that the provoc defenc cannot be us in case where someon ha kill for reveng, such as a jealou husband who murder an unfaith wife.
