protest plan airport challeng

campaign against the expans of britain's airport have begun challeng the govern's plan in the high court.

baa's expans of stanst airport in essex by build an extra runwai is on of the most fierc oppos plan. oppon sai the £2bn cost of the new runwai could not be met unless cash from heathrow and gatwick wa us. thei said thi is illeg under current rule and ar try to block the govern from chang legisl. baa ar also owner of the airport at heathrow and gatwick. thei have said thei cannot rais the monei need for the stanst upgrad from current land charg. baa also sai it ha attempt to involv commun in ani futur airport plan.

group challeng the plan includ stop stanst expans, heathrow anti-nois campaign hacan clearski and the london borough of hillingdon and wandsworth. their oppon ar also like to complain there wa no public consult befor an extra runwai wa built at luton airport, or when it chang take-off and land procedur at heathrow. if the group win, the govern's futur aviat plan outlin in last year's transport white paper could be left in ruin.

the campaign will sai the govern did not adequ consid the build of new airport, such as on plan for the isl of sheppei east of london. lord hanningfield, leader of essex counti council, told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "we ar go to the high court becaus we want a judg to rule there should be a proper inquiri. "we want a judg to sai there ha been inadequ prepar, consult and thought befor the govern came out with it green paper. "then there could be a proper debat nation about where thi extra capac should go." he ad: "politician should not decid where runwai should be." the stanst expans, apart from the build of the new runwai, would also need to includ new termin build to deal with the project 50m passeng who will us it everi year.

the airport is the hub of mani of the no-frill airlin oper in the uk. but baa ha said it ha attempt to involv commun in ani futur airport plan. at heathrow, gatwick, edinburgh and glasgow airport, baa launch a seri of consult on blight to properti from the propos expans in septemb 2004, which will close next week. baa is also offer to bui nois-hit properti for an index-link, unblight price. at heathrow, baa said it wa work close with all interest parti to see how the strict environment, air qualiti and nois target for a third runwai can be met. at gatwick, the compani ha written to home and busi like to be affect by ani extra runwai.
