tori attack burglar 'u-turn'

tori leader michael howard ha accus toni blair of perform u-turn over rule on us forc against burglar.

the govern ha rule out amend the present law, which allow "reason forc" in self defenc. mr howard brand the decis unaccept, sai: "it is not household who should be frighten, it's the burglar." home secretari charl clark said minist had kept to their pledg to review the law.

metropolitan polic commission sir john steven last month back a tori attempt to chang the law so onli household us "grossli disproportion" forc could be prosecut. the pressur prompt the prime minist to sai the polic and crown prosecut servic would be consult as part of a review of the law. he told mp: "if we get the right respons from those peopl, we will, of cours, support a chang in the law." instead, the govern ha decid no chang is need but there will be a public campaign so peopl ar clear thei ar entitl to defend themselv. on thursdai, mr howard told bbc radio 4's todai programm mr blair had initi refus the law chang, then had come round to the idea and wa now backtrack again. he said: "we've had three polici posit in three month and two u-turn. "it's not surpris gordon brown told him: 'there's noth you could sai to me now that i could ever believ.'"

mr howard said the "grossli disproportion" test match the hurdl minist had introduc for civil case where burglar where claim compens from household. the issu enter the public spotlight when norfolk farmer toni martin wa jail for shoot dead a 16-year-old burglar in 1999 as he ran awai from the farm. but the home secretari said mr howard wa wrong to sai the law wa bias in favour of burglar. the barrist who had repres mr martin had said the rule were "weight overwhelmingli" in favour of the household, said mr clark. he said: "the problem is there ha not been enough understand of it - that wa the point sir john steven wa make and the prime minist wa make." the new guidanc would help ensur clariti on the issu, ad mr clark. the director of public prosecut, ken macdonald, sai onli 11 household or occupi of busi premis have been prosecut in the last 15 year. those case includ a warehous manag who had wait for a burglar, ti him up, beat him and set him alight, he said. tori mp patrick mercer's privat member's bill to chang the law receiv a first read in parliament on wednesdai and goe to a full debat next month.
