choos hope over fear - kennedi

voter will have a clear choic between the polit of fear and the polit of hope in the next gener elect, said charl kennedi.

in hi new year messag the liber democrat leader said labour and the conserv were unit in reli on fear and "populist scare". he said hi parti wa the on of hope and wa readi for a 2005 poll. on the asian tsunami he said it had been "veri hearten" to learn of the generos be shown by briton. mr kennedi said hi thought were with all those caught up in the disast, which had domin the christma and new year period. at home he said mani peopl were turn to the liber democrat as thei becam dishearten with the polit of the other two main parti.

the gener elect would be a three-parti struggl, as the conserv parti "fade awai" as a nation forc and the liber democrat challeng labour in it heartland, he said. "a clear divis is emerg in british polit - the polit of fear versu the polit of hope. "labour is count on the polit of fear, ratchet up talk of threat, crime and insecur. while the conserv ar re-work their populist scare about asylum and the european 'menac'," he said. he said the govern wa us thi climat of fear to try to strip awai civil liberti.

it wa alreadi us detent without trial at belmarsh prison, ignor a recent law lord judgement that thi contraven basic human right, he said. he also criticis attempt to bring in trial without juri, plan to lower the burden of proof in some crimin trial, curb of right to protest, increas stop and search power and id card plan. he said while everyon had the right to be secur thei also had the right to be protect against unfair discrimin. "but at the same time, an overmighti state is a danger on," he said. hi parti "instinct" understood the "new liber britain" which is no longer a nation with on famili structur, and on colour, he said. "we ar less deferenti; more inclin to think for ourselv; more open about sexual and equal. "our nation institut ar chang too. we ar no longer a nation of on church; we ar a nation of mani faith. in our attitud and the wai we live our live, thi is in mani wai a liber britain."
