'hitler' row over welsh art cash

an artist critic of welsh art fund be brought under assembl govern control ha deni compar the idea with dictatorship in russia and germani.

shani rhy jame is worri that the art council of wale mai be taken over by the welsh assembl govern. cultur minist alun pugh said it would be "crass and ignor" to liken a quango review to hitler's germani. but ms jame emphasis she had actual said artist need freedom. the futur of the art council of wale ha been in question sinc it wa announc that most welsh quango would eventu be abolish.

it wa announc last juli that three welsh quango, educ and train bodi elwa, the wale tourist board and the welsh develop agenc, would be brought under assembl govern control. the art council of wale mai be among the next to come under the assembl govern's umbrella. but ms jame, who won the £30,000 jerwood paint prize in 2003, said art fund should be separ from govern. ms jame told bbc radio wale: "it's quit danger when you involv politician becaus it's not like the health servic and it's not like the railwai. "free express is absolut vital in a democrat societi. you need distanc, you do not need govern interfer becaus it could be taken the wrong wai."

but she said report that she had liken the assembl govern to totalitarian regim were inaccur.

she told good morn wale: "just to put the record straight, that busi in the paper where it said i liken the govern to bolshevik russia or hitler's germani, the actual quot i gave wa: 'it is vital to a civilis societi that we allow artist to express themselv without govern control'. "as we know from past european histori, i.e. russia and germani in the earli 20th centuri, artist will go underground or leav the countri or rather than compromis their express'. "artist need a free voic to express themselv - thei reflect a truth through their own art form.'" she said the assembl govern wa not best place to run the art in wale.

she ad: "it would be a moment chang and devast to the art. it would set the art scene back 60 year, becaus i realli don't think the govern ha the expertis. "if you have the nation assembl take control, i fear you ar go to be go back to the dragon and leek and the choir.

"wale ha move on. it is intern now. it is not set back in how green wa my vallei?" respond to ms jame' critic, mr pugh said: "the structur of unelect quango is under review and we have made it clear that further announc ar due shortli. "compar the welsh assembl govern to hitler's germani is a crass and ignor respons to a real issu about democrat account." ms jame, whose father wa welsh, wa born in melbourn where her parent work in the theatr. she move to powi nearli 20 year ago where she work from her studio near llangadfan. she ha won a number of art prize includ the wale open in 1989 and the mostyn open in 1991.
