lord wrong on detaine - straw

jack straw ha attack the decis by britain's highest court that detain foreign terrorist suspect without trial break human right law.

the foreign secretari said the right to life wa the "most import liberti" and the govern had a duti to protect peopl from terror. law lord were "simpli wrong" to impli the men were be held arbitrarili. new home secretari charl clark vow the nine men would remain in prison while the law wa be review.

the hous of lord rule by an eight to on major in favour of appeal by the men - deal a major blow to the govern's anti-terror polici.

but mr straw deni it amount to a "constitut crisi". he said those held had a right of appeal to the special immigr appeal tribun and the decis to hold the suspect wa upheld by that court. "the law lord ar simpli wrong to impli that thi is a decis to detain these peopl on the whim or the certif of the home secretari," he told bbc radio 4's todai programm. the foreign secretari insist it wa for parliament, and not judg, to decid how best britain could be defend against the threat of terror. but liber democrat peer lord carlil, the govern's independ review of anti-terror law, said it wa possibl some of the detaine could now be releas. he said the law lord' rule wa an "embarrass" for the govern and major chang were need to the law.

the rule came on charl clark's first dai as home secretari follow david blunkett's resign. in a statement to mp, mr clark said: "i will be ask parliament to renew thi legisl in the new year.

"in the meantim, we will be studi the judgment carefulli to see whether it is possibl to modifi our legisl to address the concern rais by the hous of lord." the detaine took their case to the hous of lord after the court of appeal back the home offic's power to hold them without limit or charg. the govern opt out of part of the european convent on human right concern the right to a fair trial in order to bring in anti-terror legisl in respons to the 11 septemb attack in the us. ani foreign nation suspect of link with terror can be detain or can opt to be deport. but those detain cannot be deport if thi would mean persecut in their homeland. on thursdai, lord bingham - a senior law lord - said the rule were incompat with the european convent on human right as thei allow detent "in a wai that discrimin on the ground of nation or immigr statu" by justifi detent without trial for foreign suspect, but not briton. lord nichol of birkenhead, in hi rule, said: "indefinit imprison without charg or trial is anathema in ani countri which observ the rule of law.

in a statement, detaine 'a' in woodhil prison said: "i hope now that the govern will act upon thi decis, scrap thi illeg 'law' and releas me and the other interne to return to our famili and love on." the case wa heard by a panel of nine law lord rather than the usual five becaus of the constitut import of the case. solicitor gareth pierc, who repres eight of the detaine, claim the detent had driven four of the detaine to "mad", sai two were be held in broadmoor hospit.
