profil: david blunkett

befor he resign the posit of home secretari on wednesdai, david blunkett had been in charg of a substanti bodi of govern portfolio includ race, polic and immigr.

hi respons in run the home offic includ civil emerg, secur, terror and expenditur. name home secretari after the 2001 gener elect, mr blunkett had seen the focu on hi offic intensifi. the attack on the world trade center on 11 septemb 2001 heighten concern for secur and immigr in particular. a labour loyalist from a work class background mr blunkett, 57, had been unafraid of push for tough chang to labour polici.

recent the issu of ident card had provok controversi with question rais over cost and invas of civil liberti. mr blunkett wa also at the centr of a humili scandal involv the former immigr minist beverli hugh. have receiv hi full back, ms hugh wa forc to resign in april over abus in the visa process system, which she claim to be unawar of. mr blunkett's own comment on immigr had prompt censur - he told refuge from afghanistan and kosovo to "get back home" to start rebuild their countri. and he also urg peopl from ethnic minor to develop a "sens of belong" in britain, tell them to speak english at home. avoid polit correct is second natur to the former home secretari, who spurn a metropolitan elit and "airi fairi libertarian" and earlier in the year coin the phrase "liberati", as an amalgam of "glitterati" and "liber". yet in januari of thi year he court further controversi over hi seemingli liber reclassif of cannabi, from a grade b to grade c statu drug .

befor the recent furor, mr blunkett had alwai appear more interest in polit than hi person life. mr blunkett told the daili telegraph in 2001 that he continu to wear hi wed ring, in spite of be a divorce, as "a us wai of ensur that peopl don't casual think i am avail". he ad: "i am not avail becaus i am just get on with the job." mr blunkett enter parliament for sheffield brightsid in 1987, after first contest the sheffield hallam seat in 1974. he is on of veri few blind mp, and wa the first to reach the front bench and the cabinet. hi relax perform - with hi guid dog by hi side - at the despatch box, in the labour parti's nation execut, and on the confer platform made it easi to forget hi disabl. mr blunkett himself describ not be abl to see as simpli "an inconveni". us braill for speech, and brief by hi offici on tape, he also ha a sharp tongu at time, and a pragmat approach to polit.

mr blunkett wa school in sheffield where he led the citi council for seven year befor enter the common. he chair the labour parti nation, and wa a unifi forc in the 80s and 90s, shadow health and educ. in toni blair's first govern mr blunkett wa put in charg of educ and employ, where he won big increas in fund for school, while insist on improv standard of literaci and numeraci. he wa prepar to stand up to the teach union - which sometim heckl hi speech - and hi polici of charg univers student for tuition fee wa not popular. in the labour parti he ha been regard as a loyal colleagu, a concili who avoid faction, and a man whose humour and determin make him wide popular. there have been wry smile as well. in 1999, hi then guid dog luci threw up in the chamber dure the speech of hi tori oppon. luci wa replac by her half-sister, sadi, a black labrador-curli-coat retriev cross, in 2003 after nearli a decad by mr blunkett's side.
