strike threat over pension plan

million of public servic worker could strike if minist scrap their final salari pension scheme and make them work longer, warn union leader.

the cabinet offic ha confirm it is review the current pension system, prompt union repres 4.5m worker to threaten unit action. thei believ the plan includ rais the mandatori retir ag for public servic worker from 60 to 65. the govern sai union will be consult befor ani chang ar made.

it is thought the propos overhaul, due on thursdai, could mean pension could be base on a "career averag" salari. for each year serv, staff current get on eightieth of their highest salari in the final three year. minist will be anxiou to avoid mass strike action in the lead-up to the next gener elect, which is wide expect next mai. in a statement on sundai, the cabinet offic said it wa review the civil servic pension scheme, and hope to announc propos soon. "union will of cours be consult about ani propos chang. "public sector pension scheme need to remain afford and sustain. peopl ar live longer and pension ar get more expens. "to maintain the long-term afford of our pension scheme, the govern announc in it green paper on pension that pension ag would rise from 60 to 65." on mondai, toni blair's offici spokesman declin to sai whether the prime minist back the plan. he said: "what's import is that there's a process go on, it's out for consult at the moment, let's wait for that process to complet itself."

there is alreadi widespread anger over the chancellor's plan to get rid of more than 100,000 civil servant. now public servic union ar unit against the plan and the trade union congress is discuss the issu next mondai. dave prenti, gener secretari of unison, said chang to pension provis for worker in the public sector would mean thei had to pai in more but would still face a raw deal. "member work in the nh or for local govern have never had high pai or citi bonus, but thei could look forward to a decent pension - now all that is be taken awai," he said. "what realli rile me is the breathtak hypocrisi of mp who recent vote themselv the best pension scheme in europ, but sai thei can't afford it for anyon els. "thi is a posit that unison cannot accept and will oppos. it will lead to conflict between unison and the govern, if not thi year then next."

mr prenti said worker did not want to go on strike and call for talk between union and the highest level of govern. mark serwotka, from the public and commerci servic union said there should be a co-ordin on dai strike unless there wa a govern rethink. the fire brigad union said the govern wa plan to cut ill health retir benefit for firefight and other measur to chip awai at pension. pension offic paul woolstenholm said: "the pension of million of public sector worker ar under threat - apart from mp and judg who have the most gener pension arrang in the countri."
