blair and blunkett sheffield trip

toni blair is to join home secretari david blunkett in a visit to sheffield on thursdai.

mr blunkett's conduct is be look at to establish whether he abus hi posit in relat to hi ex-lover. the parliamentari standard watchdog is look at hi decis to give kimberli quinn free rail ticket. he is also be investig over the visa applic of mr quinn's ex-nanni. the visit to sheffield will be seen as a show of uniti by mr blair.

on wednesdai dure prime minist's question, tori leader michael howard went on the offens over comment mr blunkett is alleg to have made in a new biographi. he is understood to have made a seri of critic about hi cabinet colleagu from the prime minist down. mr howard said mr blunkett had complain he had inherit a "giant mess" when he took over at the home offic from jack straw, now foreign secretari. the tori leader went on: "he doesn't stop there: he think the cultur secretari's weak; he think the trade secretari doesn't think strateg and he think the educ secretari hasn't develop as expect. "he sai the prime minist doesn't like be told the truth and the chancellor - no doubt the prime minist will agre with thi - is a bulli." mr blair retort voter rememb the record of a govern and no comment by politician.

the home secretari ha alreadi admit he wa wrong to give the two first class ticket, given to him as an mp, to mr quinn and ha sinc paid the £180 back. he ha apologis for "a genuin mistak" and sai he will write to the watchdog to answer further question. the rail ticket ar meant to help mp' spous get between westminst and their constitu. after hi inquiri, parliamentari watchdog sir philip mawer will report to the common standard and privileg committe, the group of mp who will recommend to the full hous of common what action - if ani - should be taken against mr blunkett.

the separ inquiri by ex-senior civil servant sir alan budd is investig whether the home secretari help fast-track a bid by mr quinn's nanni, leoncia casalm, to stai in the uk. last week, mr blunkett won the first round of a high court battl with mr quinn for access to her son. mr blunkett declin to comment about hi own posit, sai the inquiri wa under wai and the high court had stress hi right to privaci did not affect hi job in improv secur and stabil. down street ha stress mr blair's support for the home secretari.
