student 'fee factor' plai down

a rise ha been record in the number of student from south of the border appli to univers in scotland.

howev, lifelong learn minist jim wallac said that thi would not result in scottish student miss out. applic from england and wale rose by 17% between januari 2005 and the previou year, up 23,600 to 27,700. fear had been express that a flood of "fee refuge" would try to avoid top-up fee of up to £3,000 a year be introduc in england. in june last year, mr wallac announc propos to increas tuition fee for english student studi in scotland by £2,000 in an attempt to prevent a cross-border flood, although no figur ha yet been agre. legisl to introduc the top-up fee in england is not due to take effect until autumn 2006 and student who start befor then will not have to pai addit fee at all.

the figur were made public on thursdai by admiss servic uca. univers scotland, which repres univers princip, claim that an increas in applic did not amount to scottish student be squeez out. director, david caldwel, said some student could be appli in an attempt to avoid the possibl increas in annual fee at english univers, but thi wa not a major factor. he told bbc radio scotland's good morn scotland programm: "the reason peopl ar opt for scottish univers is that thei ar perceiv as be of veri high qualiti, thei offer veri attract cours and scotland is seen as a veri attract place to studi.

"thei know that when thei take up their studi in 2006 thei will be hit by top-up fee if thei ar go to a univers in england and that mai be part of the reason why the number come to scotland ar so inflat. "howev, it doe not mean that we will see thousand of addit student from england studi here." mr wallac agre and said the figur had to be look at in context. he explain that when applic were translat into accept, the number wa not huge - an addit figur of about 200.

also, the pictur wa further blur by the fact that applic from wale, where there ar no plan for top-up fee, have also risen, by 19%. mr wallac said: "accept student from all part of the world doe show the high regard in which scottish higher educ is held, not just in britain. "we want to make sure that when student ar make their choic, thei do so on the natur of the cours and not becaus thei ar under some sort of financi pressur to go to scotland. "we do not want to have a situat where it becom imposs for scottish student to get place at scottish univers becaus we ar seen as the cheap option. "veri often the qualiti of the univers experi is enhanc by the fact there ar student come from a wide rang of background so it would be wrong to go the other wai and start exclud student."
