angler 'could face prosecut'

angler and fishermen could find themselv prosecut under plan to crack down on anim cruelti, a committe of mp ha warn.

sloppi word of the draft anim welfar bill could leav angler face court even though it wa not intend, the environ select committe said. the mp said thei were "concern" the govern had not consult directli on it plan to improv anim welfar. thei rais complex and emot issu which need to be resolv, mp said.

thei call for a "cast-iron guarante" that the govern consult on ani plan to regul anim industri like pet fair and game bird rear. the draft bill seek to modernis and improv anim welfar legisl, and intend to protect "kept anim" and "companion" anim by set up a "duti of care". in addit to maintain exist cruelti offenc, it creat an offenc of neglect by keeper who fail to protect the anim for whom thei ar respons. the bill would allow anim welfar offic to interven to prevent harm to an anim as well as outlaw "mutil" of anim - unless it can be demonstr to be in the anim's best interest.

the environ select committe made 101 recommend after hear evid from 51 organis and individu. on wa a call to amend the bill so that prosecut against those engag in fish were not inadvert encourag - even if thei were to later fail. "we accept that neither commerci fish nor recreat angl should fall within the remit of the of the draft bill and we therefor support the govern's intent to exempt fish as an activ."

but the committe said an amend wa need to ensur case were not brought. "howev, in exempt fish, the govern should be care to ensur that those person who catch fish ar not given 'cart blanch' to inflict unnecessari suffer in the cours of pursu thi activ," the committe ad. the committe also said some legal protect for anim were downgrad by the bill, such as the law on abandon of anim which "would be significantli weaken". mp urg the govern to redraft claus relat to the prosecut of cruelti offenc. thi wa becaus as it stood the draft bill would allow certain act that should be prosecut - such as unnecessari suffer caus to an anim through neglect, or unnecessari mental suffer - to go unpunish.

committe chairman michael jack said: "ani chang in the law as it affect anim alwai arous power emot and great public interest. "thi draft bill is no except. my committe welcom the develop of an approach to anim welfar which doesn't just wait for a problem to occur but enabl action to be taken to protect anim befor irrevers suffer take place." but mr jack said the bill "veri much had the feel of a 'work in progress', and urg the govern to guarante that "an oblig to consult will be enshrin in law" befor it extend legisl plan to area such as pet fair, circus and game bird farm. "the govern must work hard to take the rough edg of it initi propos befor the bill is introduc to parliament," he ad.
