clark to press on with id card

new home secretari charl clark ha vow to plough on with plan for id card despit a call for him to "paus for thought" from charl kennedi.

the lib dem leader said david blunkett's resign wa a "good opportun" to question whether the legisl wa necessari. but mr clark said he had support the plan when mr blunkett argu for them in cabinet and he support them now. "id card ar a mean to creat a more secur societi," he said. mr clark acknowledg how the measur wa introduc remain a matter for debat but he said legisl had alreadi been "significantli influenc" by the recommend of the common' home affair committe.

the issu would be debat in parliament next mondai as schedul he insist. earlier mr kennedi, whose parti oppos the id card plan as "deepli flaw" said with christma come up the new home secretari had time to think again. he told bbc radio 4's todai programm that mr clark had been report to be less enthusiast about id card than hi predecessor. "wouldn't thi be a good opportun for a new home secretari, a new broom, to sweep clean in thi respect and why do we need thi legisl in the first place?" he ask. earlier thi week the tori announc thei would back the govern's plan although michael howard wa forc to deni the shadow cabinet wa split over it decis.

thei had decid to support the plan as the polic said thei would help fight terror, crime and illeg immigr. among those report to have seriou reserv over the strategi were senior shadow cabinet member david davi, oliv letwin and tim yeo. the chairman of the bar council, gui mansfield qc ha warn there is a real risk that peopl on the "margin of societi" would be driven into the hand of extremist. "what is go to happen to young asian men when there ha been a bomb gone off somewher? thei ar go to be stop. if thei haven't [id card] thei ar go to be detain."

the home offic sai peopl will pai £85 for a passport and id card togeth or a undecid fee for a separ id card. the first card would be issu in 2008 and when he wa introduc the bill, mr blunkett suggest parliament could decid in 2011 or 2012 whether to make it compulsori for everybodi to own the card, although not to carri them. the new bill will also creat new crimin offenc on the possess of fals ident document. and there will be civil penalti includ a fine of up to £1,000 fine for peopl who fail to sai thei have move hous or chang other detail and of up to £2,500 for fail to sign up if the card becom compulsori. the scheme will be overseen by a new independ watchdog.
