mp criticis child access system

divorc parent seek access to their children ar often disadvantag by the legal system, mp have said.

the constitut affair select committe said parent with custodi could exploit delai in the system to stop former partner gain access. court should be us as a last resort, but where thei ar, their order should be enforc more rigor, mp said. but thei reject the claim made by some campaign group that there should be a legal presumpt of equal access.

current the presumpt is that the interest of the child ar paramount. "an arbitrari 'templat' impos on all famili, whatev the need of the child, would releg the welfar of individu children to a secondari posit," the mp said.

thei said the law should be chang to requir famili court specif to take account of the import of sustain the relationship between the child and the non-resid parent in contest case. thi would "reassert the right of non-resid parent to contact with their children, as well as the right of children to contact with both their parent, while maintain suffici flexibl to cope with issu of safeti", thei said. delai in court hear and the inabl to effect enforc court order allow "a new 'statu quo' arrang for the children to becom establish by default", thei said.

"although the court rigor avoid consciou bia, there ar consider ground for accept that non-resid parent ar frequent disadvantag by the system as it is administ at present. "given the strong animos between the parti which is common in contest famili case, we find it hard to believ that tactic delai is not sometim us to the advantag of resid parent." committe chairman alan beith said the five-month inquiri had been a "complex and emot" on. "at the moment, far too mani contact and resid case ar be dealt with by the court when thei could be better resolv through profession mediat and negoti," he said. "thi situat ha to chang. the court system should onli be us as a last resort, where mediat and negoti have complet broken down or where issu of abus or domest violenc need to be dealt with. "thi will help to reduc delai and improv the live of mani children across the countri."
