russian ex-spy on hunger strike

an ex-russian intellig offic who risk hi life spy for mi6 is enter the seventh week of a hunger strike near 10 down street.

viktor makarov, 50, claim he ha been betrai by the british author, who promis he would live like an "averag british citizen". but despit a £65,000 settlement four year ago, he sai he ha been deni defector statu and a decent pension. other ex-russian spi have been given civil servic pension. "hunger strike is a weapon of last resort. it can work onli with determin and of cours the realis of the righteous of your case - without that it will not work," mr makarov told the bbc's newsnight programm. "sinc i came to thi countri two batch of promis have been made and broken on after the other."

oleg gordievski, a senior kgb offic who becam a secret agent for the british, said he wa "veri happi" with the wai the govern have treat him sinc him sinc he defect in 1985. comment on mr makarov's case, he said: "the british state is not a fat cow - it is imposs to come here and demand give me more monei everi week." but mr makarov's case ha been back by david kahn - a former yale historian, and a lead expert on code-break, who ha confirm hi inform wa valuabl to the western alli. "i believ the govern of the unit kingdom, which in that respect wa probabl the same as most other power author - took the inform that victor makarov had, wrung him dry and left him to hang out in the cold," mr kahn said.

mr makarov join the kgb in 1970s russia, as an idealist 20 year-old. on of hi fellow pupil at intellig school wa vladimir putin. at kgb headquart in moscow, he wa post to the secret 16th director - which decod intercept diplomat traffic from the west. by the 1980s he had risen to the rank of senior lieuten - and wa privi to the thought of western power. but he had becam deepli disench with the soviet regim - fuell by it repress both at home and in poland.

through hi english teacher, he made an approach to m16 - and then began pass secret to the british intellig servic. he spi for mi6 for two year befor be betrai by a friend and sent to perm 35 - a soviet hard labour camp in the artic circl. within a week of hi releas in 1992, he made contact with the british author he'd been spy for, who arrang a meet between him and an mi6 agent in latvia. he wa given a fals passport, and he sai, promis that he would be given the chanc to live like an averag uk citizen. but after arriv in london 13 year ago, he feel thi promis ha not been fulfil. after long period of live in bedsit, with deterior health, four year ago he took legal action against the govern - and settl for £65,000 to bui a small hous. but he sai he will remain on hunger strike until he receiv a decent pension and the right to work, someth he feel he ha been deni becaus the author do not trust him. govern sourc told the bbc thei had reach a final settlement with the former spy, which he ha been abl to appeal to secur and intellig tribun.
