kelli trail new disciplin power

teacher could get more power to remov unruli pupil from class under a "zero toler" drive, educ secretari ruth kelli ha suggest.

ms kelli told the bbc progress had been made against sever disrupt children but parent were still worri about lower level problem. the minist also confirm she receiv "spiritu support" from the cathol movement opu dei. but she deni her faith meant she would refus kei govern job.

the conserv have made school disciplin on of their five prioriti area in the run-up to the next gener elect. ms kelli is expect to announc her plan on the issu in the next fortnight. she told bbc on's breakfast with frost: "it is realli import to support head teacher and teacher in tackl disrupt in the classroom. "we have made huge progress on the realli difficult case, the pupil who have sever disrupt behaviour.

"but quit rightli what teacher ar concern about and what parent ar concern about is that thi lower level disrupt that goe on in the classroom now is tackl. "i would like to see the teacher be abl to remov disrupt children from the classroom complet and have either altern provis within the school or inde off the school and mai be work togeth with other school in a particular area to provid that provis." it is thought the plan mai distinguish between exclud pupil from school and take them out of mainstream class. head teacher can current exclud pupil who commit or threaten violenc in school, who sexual abus pupil or other peopl, who sell illeg drug or who have persist and malici disrupt behaviour. ms kelli enter the cabinet last month in the reshuffl forc by the resign of the then home secretari david blunkett. her link to opu dei, which mean "work of god" in latin, have provok controversi.

critic sai the organis, which adher strictli to cathol teach, is secret and elitist but it member reject such claim. ask if she wa a member of the group, ms kelli said: "i do have spiritu support from opu dei and that is right. "but those ar privat spiritu matter and i'm sure you'll respect that politician ar entitl to a privat life." she categor deni report that her belief on issu such as contracept would make her refus to serv as a health or intern develop minist. her collect respons as a cabinet minist meant she also took respons for polici in those area, she argu.

the govern ha yet to issu it offici respons to the tomlinson review, which recommend absorb exist exam qualif into a diploma. ms kelli said reform should build on gcse and a-level. her comment did not impress tori shadow educ secretari tim collin. "ruth kelli want to ditch the tomlinson report on exam structur but ha absolut no idea what to put in it place," he said. "she also talk of improv disciplin but cannot make her mind up how. thi is an all talk agenda that let down children, teacher and parent."
