citizenship event for 18s tout

citizenship ceremoni could be introduc for peopl celebr their 18th birthdai, charl clark ha said.

the idea will be tri as part of an overhaul of the wai govern approach "inclus citizenship" particularli for ethnic minor. a pilot scheme base on ceremoni in australia will start in octob. mr clark said it would be a wai of recognis young peopl reach their vote ag when thei also gain greater independ from parent. britain's young black and asian peopl ar to be encourag to learn about the nation's heritag as part of the govern's new race strategi which will also target specif issu within differ ethnic minor group. offici sai the home secretari want young peopl to feel thei belong and to understand their "other cultur ident" alongsid be british. the launch follow a row about the role of faith school in britain. on mondai school inspect chief david bell, accus some islam school of fail to teach pupil about their oblig to british societi.

the muslim council of britain said ofst boss mr bell's comment were "highli irrespons". the home offic start work on it commun cohes and race equal strategi last year and the outcom, launch on wednesdai, is call 'improv opportun, strengthen societi'. it is aim at tackl racism, exclus, segreg and the rise in polit and religi extrem. "it repres a move awai from the on-size-fit-all approach to focu on specif within cultur group," said a home offic spokesman. "it is not right to sai that if you ar from a black or ethnic minor group you must be disadvantag." the spokesman highlight specif issu that affect particular commun - for exampl peopl of south asian origin tend to suffer from a high incid of heart diseas.

"it is about drill down and focus on these sort of problem," the spokesman ad. launch the initi mr clark said enorm progress had been made on race issu in recent year. he ad: "but while mani member of black and minor ethnic commun ar thrive, some mai still find it harder to succe in employ or gain access to healthcar, educ or hous. "thi strategi set out the govern's commit to do more to identifi and respond to the specif need of minor in our societi." some 8% of the uk popul describ themselv as come from a non-white ethnic minor in the 2001 censu.

the down street strategi unit in 2003 said peopl from indian and chines background were do well on averag, often outperform white peopl in educ and earn. but those of pakistani, bangladeshi and black caribbean origin were significantli more like to be unemploi and earn less than white, it said. the home offic want more initi which try to promot a sens of belong by encourag young peopl to take part in voluntari work. the programm ar design to support the citizenship lesson alreadi take place in school.
