eu china arm ban 'to be lift'

the eu embargo on arm export to china is like to be lift in the next six month despit us object, uk foreign secretari jack straw ha said.

the 15-year-old ban wa impos in the aftermath of china's crackdown on protest in tiananmen squar. mr straw told a common select committe human right concern over china remain. but he said it wa wrong to put china under the same embargo as countri such as zimbabw and burma.

in decemb, the eu pledg to work toward lift the ban but said it wa not readi to do so yet. the eu's move wa welcom at the time by beij, which describ the embargo as a "product of the cold war". german chancellor gerhard schroeder and french presid jacqu chirac have repeatedli call for the embargo to be lift. britain ha been more cautiou on the issu, but on wednesdai mr straw said he also want it to end. "i have long understood china's argument, that to lump them in with, sai, burma and zimbabw is not appropri and i don't think it is," he told the joint committe on strateg export control. he said "it is more like than not" that the ban would be lift befor britain take over the presid of the eu from luxembourg in juli. but he said an eu code of conduct would prevent an increas in the number of arm be export to the countri. "if it is lift we will end up with as effect arm control in relat to china as we have now."

mr straw said the us govern wa suspici of "the motiv of some other countri within the eu" in want the ban lift. but he said mani of washington's object were base on a "lack of inform and understand" of how export control guidelin work in eu countri. and "intens discuss" were take place with us offici to convinc them it wa the right thing to do. washington is thought to fear it would lead to a bui spree for arm that could be us by china to threaten it diplomat rival taiwan. us offici sai thei ar not satisfi the mechan in the eu code of conduct ar robust enough to prevent abus. us undersecretari of state john bolton is meet british offici thi week to press the case for keep the embargo.
