cardin criticis iraq war cost

billion of pound spent on conflict in iraq and in the middl east should have been us to reduc poverti, cardin cormac murphi-o'connor ha said.

the head of the cathol church in england and wale made the comment on bbc radio 4 and will re-iter hi stanc in hi christma midnight mass. the cardin us a christma messag to denounc the war in iraq as a "terribl" wast of monei. he and the archbishop of canterburi have both spoken out about the war.

speak on bbc radio 4's thought for the dai slot, he criticis the fact that "billion" have been spent on war, instead of be us to bring peopl "out of dire poverti and malnourish and diseas". the cardin said 2005 should be the year for campaign to "make histori poverti". he ad: "if the govern of the rich countri were as readi to devot to peac the resourc thei ar will to commit to war, that would be to see with new ey and speak with a new voic and perhap then other would listen to us with new ear." the cardin will touch on thi theme again on fridai night when he will tell the congreg of 2,000 at westminst cathedr that peac is "worth, alwai, strive for".

"how is it that peac ha not arriv?," the cardin will ask. "how is it that there is war in iraq, violenc in the holi land, and the horror of pain and death amongst the poor and depriv who suffer from injustic and thu do not find peac?" "how can on wish a happi christma for our fellow christian in iraq or in the holi land or those who suffer in africa unless you and i, in whatev wai is open to us, sai and do what make for peac?" both the cardin and archbishop of canterburi dr rowan william appeal for the weapon inspector to be given more time in iraq befor the war start. dr william ha sinc criticis the govern over it case for war, sai the failur to find weapon of mass destruct had damag faith in the polit system.

on fridai, the cardin will ask the congreg to search for peac. "it is possibl, it is real, it is worth, alwai, strive for, becaus of the promis of our saviour," he will sai. "i also wish you peac in your home becaus peac in your home is the begin of peac in the home of the commun. " a spokesman said down street had no comment to make. but prime minist toni blair ha said he will put africa at the top of the agenda when britain chair the g8 summit next year.
