muslim discuss elect concern

issu that muslim should be consid befor vote in the next gener elect ar to be debat by uk commun repres.

the event is be held by the muslim associ of britain (mab), which believ muslim voter could influenc the result in up to 50 constitu. last year mab, which oppos the war in iraq, urg muslim not to vote for labour in the european elect. but a spokesman stress the meet wa "not necessarili anti-labour". "thi meet is not anti-parti in particular, it's anti-polici, it's on the issu we ar go to ask muslim to vote on," mab spokesman dr azzam tamimi said of tuesdai's event.

"there ar issu of concern to muslim, and muslim gener agre on them but have not in the past been awar of how a vote can serv these issu." dr tamimi said the main issu muslim should consid were what he refer to as the war on iraq, the palestinian situat, the eros of civil liberti for muslim in the uk and econom, social and educ problem.

approxim 1.1m of the uk's 1.6m muslim ar of vote ag. previou elect research ha shown the overwhelm major have tradition vote labour, but more recent studi have suggest labour support ha been fall awai significantli among some muslim voter.

anger over the war in iraq ha appear to be the main reason, with mani sai it wa "unjustifi". repres from a number of muslim organis will attend tuesdai's event. among them will be the muslim council of britain (mcb). the chairman of the mcb's public affair committe, sher khan, said the war in iraq would be a "signific factor" affect muslim' vote intent. "i think it's go to be quit signific becaus of the number of seat in which thei could have an impact," mr khan said.

howev, professor john curtic, of the univers of strathclyd, is sceptic about how much differ tactic vote by muslim could make. "for the most part the labour constitu where there's a larg muslim commun ar rel safe, but there ar on or two that ar not quit so safe," professor curtic said.

the constitu where labour wa most at risk from a muslim tactic vote were bethnal green, in east london, and rochdal in lancashir, he ad. in bethnal green, former labour mp georg gallowai, who found the anti-war parti respect, is stand against sit mp oona king, who had a 10,000-vote major in 2001. in rochdal, the liber democrat - the mainstream parti a 2004 icm survei show wa benefit most from muslim disaffect with labour - secur second place in the 2001 elect, secur just under 6,000 vote fewer than labour's lorna fitzsimon. but professor curtic said the muslim anti-war vote could be split between the liber democrat and respect, mean neither would benefit much at the ballot box. "iron the tori might be the beneficiari if labour doe lose seat, which is gener the case," he said. but dr tamimi said mab's intent wa not to "empow" the tori. "we know the next govern will be labour, but we ar aim to send a messag that it will make a differ if the muslim us their vote properli. "if the next labour govern ha a reduc major that's a great achiev becaus have a veri big major ha been veri harm for polit in thi countri," dr tamimi said.
