guantanamo pair's passport ban

the govern ha written to two of the british men freed from guantanamo bai tell them thei will not be allow passport.

a letter sent to martin mubanga said hi british passport would not be issu in the light of evid gather against him by the us. thi suggest he wa like to take part in action against uk or alli target if he left britain, it said. an ident letter ha been sent to feroz abbasi, the men's solicitor sai.

it is not known whether the other two men releas from the cuba detent camp in januari - richard belmar and moazzam begg - have also receiv letter. the govern is implement the rare us royal prerog in order to withdraw the men's passport. it is onli the 13th time the power ha been us sinc 1947 - the last time wa in 1976. the letter, from the home offic, sai: "i am write to inform you that on the basi of the inform which ha come to light dure your detent by the unit state, the home secretari consid that there ar strong ground for believ that, on leav the unit kingdom, you would take part in activ against the unit kingdom, or alli target."

the home offic said it could not comment on individu case.

the liber democrat sai thei suspect the move is part of a packag of secur measur agre with the us in order for the men to be allow home from guantanamo bai.

home affair spokesman mark oaten also demand assur that the evid against the men wa not gain under tortur. he ad: "the power should onli be us in absolut extrem circumst and i find it hard to believ that these condit have been met thi time." he said the move also rais complex question about the us of the royal prerog. the liber democrat have promis to rais the issu in parliament.

amnesti intern uk also question whether the decis had been base on "tortur evid" obtain at guantanamo bai. "furthermor, we believ there should be an investig into the role plai by the uk in the detent of uk resid and nation and possibl mani other at guantanamo bai," said director kate allen. the men's solicitor, louis christian, ha rais question about whether the evid wa gather through tortur. but the pentagon told bbc new us polici "condemn and prohibit" tortur and said there wa no evid that ani british detaine wa tortur or abus. mr abbasi, 23, from croydon, south london, wa taken to guantanamo bai after be captur in afghanistan in 2001. mr mubanga, 29, from north london, wa origin detain in zambia.
