common hunt protest charg

eight protest who storm the hous of common chamber dure a debat on the hunt bill have been charg with disorderli conduct.

the men were arrest in septemb after burst into the chamber caus a hunt ban debat to be halt. those charg includ oti ferri, the 22-year-old son of rock star bryan ferri and luke tomlinson, 27, a close friend of princ william and harri. thei were charg under section 5 of the public order act, polic said.

five of the eight men held an impromptu new confer outsid chare cross polic station on mondai even, after the charg were formerli put to them. the men's solicitor matthew knight, said that at no time had it occur to the men that thei were commit a crimin offenc.

"there is no offenc of trespass in the hous of common - it is not a crimin offenc," he said. "if parliament want to make enter the hous of common chamber on foot a crimin offenc it should have done so, but it can't do so retrospect. "we ar not prosecut for that. we ar prosecut for a public order act offenc. we ar not guilti of it." thei will appear at bow street magistr' court on 21 decemb, a polic spokesman said. oti ferri, a former eton pupil and joint leader of the south shropshir hunt, said: "i have no regret. "we have done noth wrong beyond the obviou which wa to stand up for our right and not act like a sheep like the rest of the countri." on of the men, david redver, 34, from hartpuri, gloucestershir, said he and the other seven protest would plead not guilti to the charg.

the other protest ar john hollidai, 37, a huntsman from ledburi, herefordshir, robert thame, 34, who plai polo with princ charl in team highgrov, auction andrew elliot, 42, from bromesberrow, near ledburi, point-to-point jockei richard wakeham, 34, from york, and former royal chef nick wood, 41. the 15 septemb protest came on the same dai as a huge pro-hunt demonstr in parliament squar. four of the men ran out from behind the speaker's chair while anoth wrestl past a doorkeep from a differ entranc. the five tri to confront mp befor thei were bundl out of the chamber and later led awai handcuf by polic. three other had been intercept by secur staff as thei tri to join the five in the chamber.

speaker michael martin later said the men had us a forg letter to gain access to the hous of common and had been help to get close to the chamber by a parliamentari pass holder. in novemb, the us of the parliament act meant a total ban on hunt with dog in england and wale. howev, mani pro-hunt activist remain defiant after the law wa pass, sai thei would ignor the ban and continu to hunt. last week, the countrysid allianc said more than 250 hunt would meet legal the dai after the ban on hunt with dog come into forc. the allianc said the 19 februari meet would show the new law wa "imposs difficult to determin" and open to differ interpret.
