mp to debat 'euthanasia law'

mp ar prepar to debat a bill which critic claim would legalis euthanasia "by the back door".

the bill would give legal forc to "live will", where peopl sai thei want medic treatment withheld if thei becom sever incapacit. the mental capac bill ha broad support from chariti who sai it would give better safeguard over treatment. but christian group sai it could mean doctor withhold food and fluid even if thei think it inappropri.

minist insist the mental capac bill - for england and wale - would not chang law on assist suicid and contain a presumpt in favour of preserv life.

the bill would establish a legal presumpt that everybodi can make decis about their own treatment unless prove otherwis. it would allow peopl to give somebodi the power of attornei to make decis on their behalf, which could be challeng by doctor. critic fear it could allow "kill by omiss" through withdraw treatment. an amend to the bill - specif prevent decis that would bring about death - ha been tabl by former conserv leader iain duncan smith. nineti on mp have sign a petit back the amend. mp could vote on it later on tuesdai, dure the bill's report stage debat. the bill will then go to a third read and be debat in the lord, befor becom law.

the christian medic fellowship (cmf) and lawyer' christian fellowship (lcf) said the mental capac bill would allow euthanasia by the "back door". peter saunder of the cmf said it believ advanc refus should be onli advisori, not legal bind. "cmf is concern that patient will make unwis and hasti advanc decis to refus food and fluid without be properli inform about the diagnosi and the expect cours their ill will take," he said.

the lcf's andrea william said there were "too mani loophol that could be abus by unscrupul doctor". ex-labour minist frank field told bbc two's newsnight programm there wa a danger peopl would feel under pressur to "do awai" with themselv so rel could inherit their asset.

constitut affair minist david lammi said law affect 750,000 peopl with dementia need updat. mr lammi told bbc new labour mp would not get a free vote as the law wa be strengthen, not chang. "we ar against euthanasia, we ar against assist suicid but we ar in a situat now where peopl can make live will and that ha the forc of the common law," he said. "doctor ar sai thei want more clariti. patient ar sai thei want more clariti." the make decis allianc, which includ the alzheim's societi, ag concern, mencap and the nation autist societi, said misunderstand over the bill had to be clear up. "it will not chang the current law on euthanasia and will actual provid a seri of better safeguard when decis ar made for peopl who lack capac," the allianc said in a statement. the british medic associ also back the bill, sai it just give incapacit peopl the same right as other. debat on legalis euthanasia ha intensifi in the uk becaus of case like that of motor neuron patient dian pretti. she di two year ago after lose a legal battl to allow her husband to help her commit suicid.
