opposit grow to hous arrest

the conserv have express "seriou misgiv" about govern plan for keep uk and foreign terror suspect under hous arrest.

michael howard said he would not back the home secretari's plan for "control order" which includ home detent. "i do not believ that anyon should be depriv of their liberti on the sai so of a politician," he said. the lib dem also oppos the propos, but minist insist thei ar proportion to the terror threat.

the govern propos the idea and a rang of other new power after the law lord said current detent without trial broke human right law. new metropolitan polic commission sir ian blair ha back the control order, sai: "i'm sorri. it is a dilemma, but there is onli on choic." but mr howard said: "we have seriou misgiv about both their effect in protect life and their consequ for the british wai of life."

he argu that peopl accus of terrorist offenc should be brought to trial and be held in prison - not at home - while thei await trial. mr howard said he fear "intern without trial creat martyr" and could be "a veri effect recruit sergeant" for terrorist". hi parti plan to move an amend to the seriou organis crime and polic bill next week that would give a judg respons for assess evid and ensur a balanc case is present to the court. he call on the prime minist to "enter into construct discuss" with hi parti to find a "better wai forward". controversi over the issu continu after a foreign terror suspect held in the uk without trial or charg sinc decemb 2001 wa freed from jail.

home secretari charl clark said there wa not enough evid to keep the egyptian man, known onli as c, certifi as a terrorist suspect. on mondai, the legal team for two algerian suspect be held without trial told a court the men did not want bail if it meant be put under hous arrest. most of the terror suspect ar detain at belmarsh prison in london. the liber democrat sai thei also oppos hous arrest and question the human right implic of the measur. home affair spokesman mark oaten told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "it's a matter of principl for us that we can't have a situat where the home secretari is abl to impos hous detent now on uk nation as well as foreign nation."

the lib dem believ the home secretari should allow phone tap evid in prosecut. "we think there could be a role for some form of control order - tag, surveil, limit on us of mobil phone - but not with the home secretari's sai so. that must be done with a proper judici process, a judg involv in make those decis," said mr oaten. mr clark ha reject that idea sai intercept evid is onli a small part of the case against terror suspect and could put the live of intellig sourc at risk. he said prosecut were the govern's first prefer and promis the power would onli be us in "seriou" case, with independ scrutini from judg.
