'no more concess' on terror

charl clark sai he ha "no desir" to offer more concess on hi controversi anti-terror plan to get them on to the statut book.

mp vote in favour of the prevent of terror bill after mr clark agre to kei chang - but labour's major wa reduc to 14. the bill now face opposit from peer angri at hous arrest propos. lord strathclyd, tori leader in the lord, said minist should expect it to be "substanti re-written".

the bill propos "control order", which as well as hous arrest could impos curfew, tag or ban on telephon and internet us. thei would replac current power to detain foreign terror suspect without trial, which the law lord have rule against.

on mondai, mp vote 272-219 in favour of the bill after kei concess from mr clark. the govern earlier saw it 161-strong major cut to just 14 as a cross-parti amend wa narrowli reject by the common despit the support of 62 labour rebel. mr clark won over critic by announc he would introduc an amend in the lord to ensur the most controversi control order, amount to hous arrest, would be impos by judg and not politician. lord strathclyd warn minist that thei should "prepar themselv for substanti rewrit of variou aspect of the bill". "thei should consid far more serious the us of intercept evid in ani trial and i think thei should drop the most objection propos, which ar for hous arrest."

but mr clark told bbc radio 4's todai programm he believ the chang he had made to the bill to win over critic in the common should be suffici to satisfi colleagu in the lord. "no bill goe through parliament without detail consider be made, but i believ that what i announc yesterdai will be suffici to secur the agreement of the hous of lord," he said.

"i have no desir to make further so-call concess on the bill." mr clark's propos amend will be debat by the lord on tuesdai without have been consid by mp. the debat is unlik to result in a vote. speak after the common debat, shadow home secretari david davi said the bill had been "clearli veri badli drawn-up" and that the govern wa try to rush it through too quickli. he said it would be possibl to "rescu" the govern and make the law "toler" by amend it in the lord. "the scope for miscarriag of justic is enorm," he told bbc new.

mark oaten, for the liber democrat, said mondai night's vote show the govern had "lost the confid of all side of the hous". he said: "thei need to rethink the bill, and extend the power of a judg to decid on all control order, build safeguard on evid and creat charg against suspect. "unless there is a major movement, thi bill is doom to fail."

bbc new polit editor andrew marr said: "i think that thi is a bill in deep troubl. it's been unravel in the hous of common - it mai unravel further." the govern want the new bill to pass into law by 14 march, when the current power expir.
