no to royal success shake-up

a labour peer ha withdrawn propos to give femal member of the royal famili the same right as male.

the legisl would have end the right of male heir with older sister to succe to the crown. it would also have torn up ancient legisl ban heir to the throne marri roman cathol. but the govern refus to back lord dub' success to the crown bill, sai it wa too complex and rais too mani constitut issu.

the lord chancellor, lord falcon, agre the 1701 act of settlement, which govern the success, wa discriminatori but ad that "for all practic purpos it effect ar limit".

the chang propos by lord dub were a "complex and controversi undertak rais major constitut issu", he said. lord falcon said there were 22 member of the royal famili in the line of success after the princ of wale - all of who were elig to succe and had been unaffect by the act. "it is not a simpl matter that can be tinker with lightli. while we wish to remov all form of discrimin... thi isn't the proper form," he ad.

he did not rule out chang in the futur but said if lord dub' privat member's bill wa pass by peer, he would urg mp to oppos it in the common. lord dub agre to withdraw hi bill after it second read in the hous of lord, but urg the govern to think again at a later stage. "we cannot forev sai we don't want to chang thing becaus it is too difficult," he told peer. dure the debat, the labour peer and former minist said: "the monarchi should symbolis the valu of thi countri. "what we don't want is a situat where the valu of the countri have move on and the monarchi is centuri behind the time. "we ar sure all oppos to discrimin on the ground of gender and we ar sure also oppos to discrimin against cathol." but oppon of the bill, includ tori lord campbel of allowai and the bishop of winchest, the rt rev michael scott-joynt, said it would separ the state from both the church of england and the christian faith. such a "secular" state would be markedli "less toler", rt rev scott-joynt argu.
