bori oppos mayor apolog

ken livingston should "stick to hi gun" and not apologis for hi "nazi" comment to a jewish report, tori mp bori johnson ha insist.

mr johnson also claim toni blair's intervent in the row wa "an attempt to reassur jewish voter". london mayor mr livingston sai he is "stand by" hi remark which liken an even standard journalist to a "concentr camp guard". but the prime minist sai it is time for mr livingston to sai sorri.

labour's mr livingston ha said hi comment mai have been offens but were not racist, and said earlier thi week he would not apologis even if mr blair ask. later the prime minist said: "a lot of us in polit get angri with journalist from time to time, but in the circumst, and to the journalist becaus he wa a jewish journalist, ye, he should apologis."

howev, mr johnson, who wa forc to apologis last year for an articl in the magazin he edit about liverpudlian griev over the death of british hostag ken biglei, said mr blair "should butt out of" the row. "i don't see why the prime minist ha to get involv in thi," the spectat editor told bbc radio 4's todai programm. "it's a disput between ken livingston and a report on the even standard." mr johnson, mp for henlei-on-thame, oxfordshir, said he suspect labour wa now try to reassur jewish voter "becaus of thi curiou wai in which labour seem to be try to curri favour with disillus muslim voter who mai be disillus about the war".

"ken doesn't think he's got anyth to sai sorri for and if that's realli hi feel, then i think that he should stick to hi gun," he said. mr johnson apologis last octob for perpetu an "outdat stereotyp" of liverpool in the leader articl on the death of mr biglei. the articl in the magazin suggest griev liverpudlian were wallow in their victim statu. it also attribut blame to drunken liverpool footbal fan for the 1989 hillsborough disast in which 96 di. mr johnson told todai: "it's perfectli true that i got into the grovel game myself and when i apologis there were some thing that i felt i ought to sai sorri for ... there were also other thing i didn't think i should apologis for," he said. "but here's old ken - he's been crass, he's been insensit and thuggish and brutal in hi languag - but i don't think actual if you read what he said, although it wa extraordinari and rude, i don't think he wa actual anti-semit."
