report attack defenc spend

the ministri of defenc ha been criticis over the soar spend cost and grow delai of it top equip project.

a nation audit offic report on the 20 biggest project sai cost have risen by £1.7bn in the past year. it sai there is "littl evid" the mod's perform had improv, despit the introduct of a "smart acquisit" polici six year ago. a senior defenc offici told the bbc lesson were be learn. the nao's annual report show the total cost of the 20 project cover wa expect to reach £50bn - 14% higher than origin plan. the total delai amount to 62 month, with averag individu delai rise by three month.

sir john bourn, head of the nao, said the problem show the principl of the scheme known as smart acquisit had not been consist appli. "mani problem can be trace to the fact that the mod ha not spent enough time and resourc in the assess phase," the report sai. the nao found that project launch sinc the start of the scheme were show the same worri tendenc as the older "legaci project", such as the eurofight. a senior defenc offici, speak to the bbc's defenc correspond paul adam, said that although the figur were still not good enough, the report reflect unrealist expect earli on in the project cycl. thi year's overspend wa significantli less than last year's £3.1bn total, and the defenc procur agenc - which is respons for bui defenc equip - wa improv.

lord bach, minist for defenc procur, said he wa "obvious still disappoint with the cost and time increas shown", but insist that the defenc procur agenc had "undertaken a huge amount of work to expos ani underli problem on project". the latest find follow a string of critic report issu within the last 12 month, and, accord to our correspond, contain few new surpris. turn around the defenc procur agenc "wa a littl like try to turn around a super tanker - it take a veri long time inde", he said. our correspond said it wa the same project, includ the joint strike fighter, the nimrod and a400m aircraft and the type 45 destroy, which were resons for the bulk of the cost over-run and delai. but he ad some project, such as the c-17 heavi lift aircraft and successor identif friend or foe (siff), were show good perform.
