asylum children to face return

the uk govern is plan to return asylum seeker children without parent to albania.

the trial scheme, which could start in week, mai be extend to appli to children from other countri. children's chariti have react with alarm, sai the polici amount to forcibl remov and mai not guarante the safeti of those affect. but the home offic sai it mai be in the children's best interest if it reunit them with their commun.

the pilot, includ in the govern's five-year immigr plan, aim to return unaccompani asylum-seek children from albania who have fail in their asylum claim.

sinc 2002, at least 9,000 under-18s have arriv in the uk to seek asylum without other famili member. these children automat becom the respons of social servic. up to now, minist have held back from final remov order against unaccompani children until after thei ar legal adult at 18. at least a dozen albanian-born teenag ar thought to have been identifi for return, accord to sourc, although there is no public confirm of number. those select could either be return to their famili, should thei be trace, or place in the care of other albanian author. separ negoti to establish a famili trace and return scheme ar believ to be underwai with anoth countri.

under the 1989 children act, public bodi have a duti to act in the "best interest" of a child in their care. laura brownle of save the children said there were grave concern, not least becaus of the well-document traffick of children into crime and prostitut in albania.

"if children ar go to be return then there should be proper assess and decis on a case by case basi," she said. "we do not think there ar structur in place [to receiv return children in albania]. 'if these decis ar not in the best interest of the child, then that is a forc remov becaus the child will not have ani choic in the final decis." in it five-year immigr plan, announc on tuesdai, the govern said it wa address "the difficult issu" of return unaccompani asylum seek children. a spokesman for the home offic said it wa wholli wrong to suggest that the plan wa to return children "and leav them to rot". "we ar develop a return programm for unaccompani asylum-seek children whose asylum and humanitarian protect claim have been refus," said the spokesman. "we have been explor how we can establish recept and longer-term care arrang in countri of origin and believ that it's possibl to return children in a wai that is in their best interest and is safe and sustain.

"we do not believ that it is right, or in keep with children's legisl, that children who can return should remain in the uk indefinit separ from their famili and commun." the spokesman stress the uk would abid by it intern human right oblig. onli those children who could be provid with a carefulli plan reintegr packag would be return, he said. but andrew hogg, spokesman for the medic foundat for the care of victim of tortur, said minist had so far fail to reassur agenc. "from what is so far known, we strongli oppos the scheme becaus the welfar and best interest of the child will not properli be taken into account," said mr hogg. "in albania particularli there is no statutori child care or protect structur. "the medic foundat ha mani seriou concern, includ the assess process for suitabl for return, the degrad of best interest of the child principl and of child welfar, and the lack of safeguard in the chosen countri." a spokesman for the albanian embassi in london said it wa the first it had heard of a scheme, but did not rule out that there had been an agreement between the two countri.
