'fido' to be taken off vote list

the risk of pet and children be given vote could be cut by chang how peopl regist to vote, the uk elect watchdog ha said.

those ar some of the mistak found under the current system, where on person in each household appli for vote form for the other occup. the elector commiss sai enabl peopl to regist individu could cut some error and combat fraud. voter need to regist by 11 march if the next poll is on 5 mai as expect. but ani individu registr scheme would not be introduc in britain befor that gener elect.

the propos scheme would mean voter us individu "identifi" when thei vote - such as their own vote number, date of birth and signatur. the elector commiss sai have voter regist individu rather than the head of household do it for them fit better with human right law. chairman sam younger told mp on tuesdai care wa need to ensur that peopl were not lost off the regist in the process - which happen when northern ireland switch to a similar system. there have been rare case when household pet have been put on the elector roll, the mp heard. and some peopl have regist all their famili, regardless of their ag - birth date ar not includ on the form so elect offic cannot easili check. non-british citizen who ar not entitl to vote have also been regist in some case.

mr younger said there wa anecdot evid of inaccuraci in the regist, the vast major of which were caus by genuin mistak. he argu local council could look harder at promot target campaign at "hard to reach" voter, for exampl. some author alreadi run such programm but in other councillor worri about the parti polit impact of encourag particular area to turn out. mr younger said us the royal mail's postal redirect servic had alreadi help elect offic retrac about 50,000 voter.

he argu individu registr would also increas secur for postal ballot and other new wai of vote. there have been fear there ar too few check to ensur current postal vote ar cast by the person on the vote form. he said it might also help regist student in hall of resid, where the hall warden often ha to do the job for everybodi. the mp on the offic of the deputi prime minist and constitut affair select committe press mr younger on how to avoid lose voter in ani changeov. he said the northern ireland exampl illustr real difficulti to be confront. current, british voter have to re-regist to vote everi year or face be remov from the elector roll if thei fail to do so two year run. mr younger suggest the re-registr could happen less frequent but argu effort were need to check the elector roll were up-to-date.
