'more to do' on adult literaci

the govern will onli hit it target for improv adult math and literaci skill if cours ar made more attract, a report sai.

the nation audit offic prais minist for reach the benchmark of 750,000 adult in england gain basic qualif by thi year. but a target of 1.5 million more by 2010 need "creativ" idea. some 26 million adult lack math or english skill level expect of school-leaver.

accord to the report, "more than half" the qualif achiev were by learner ag 16 to 18. these ar defin as "adult" by the govern for the purpos of compil these figur. normal adult ar defin as be ag over 19. the number of these peopl gain qualif wa "rise slowli". auditor gener sir john bourn said: "higher level of literaci and numeraci will benefit england both social and econom. "more peopl will have the opportun to live richer live." in 2001, the govern launch the get on scheme - aim at reduc illiteraci and innumeraci. sir john said "substanti progress" had been made sinc, ad that thi wa "onli the begin". the govern and it partner would "need to be creativ and respons". some £3.7bn will be spent on implement the programm by 2006. the report recommend gather more detail on the educ need of area, so cours can be set to meet local demand. exist adult learner could us their "enthusiasm, commit and local knowledg" to attract other peopl. the depart for educ and skill could also us more "personalis learn" and work with voluntari group, council and employ.

it should also assess adult learner' progress "at frequent interv", the report add. when the govern announc it had reach it 2004 target earlier thi month, prime minist toni blair said it wa "onli the start of the journei". an estim 5.2 million adult have wors literaci than that expect of 11 year old, while 14.9 million have numeraci skill below thi level. thi is thought to cost the uk economi hundr of million of pound each year. the qualif achiev by those take part in the govern's scheme rang up to gcse equival. get on's particip target ha been set at 2.25 million by 2010, with an interim figur of 1.5 million by 2007. educ minist ivan lewi said: "we will continu to us creativ wai of involv peopl with the lowest skill level and the report show that our effort ar gather pace." shadow educ secretari tim collin said: "thi is the third report in two dai to highlight labour's failur to ensur young peopl acquir the necessari level of literaci and numeraci for their work life. "employ and busi leader have repeatedli voic concern over the number of school-leaver without these basic skill, but all the govern have offer is more talk." liber democrat educ spokesman phil willi ad: "far too littl ha been done to enabl adult learner to fit learn into their busi live."
