uk's 'useless' quango under fire

the uk ha 529 quango financ with billion of pound of taxpay' cash - mani of which ar useless or duplic each other's effort, a report claim.

essenti guid to british quango 2005 author dan lewi said at least 111 of the appoint bodi had been set up sinc labour won power in 1997. he urg a limit on the number of quango that could be set up by ani individu govern depart. tori and lib dem welcom the report and call for a "slim down".

conserv deregul spokesman john redwood said: "the research endors our polici of destroi unwant and unnecessari quango, and slim down the rest.

"a conserv govern will ax 162 quango, as part of it drive for more effici and more account govern." lib dem spokesman ed davei meanwhil said instead of the "bonfir of quango" new labour had promis, there had been an "explos" of them. "for over two decad, under both tori and labour govern, these unaccount agenc have mushroom. "liber democrat would abolish mani, merg other, and make ani that remain properli account." labour repres were unavail for comment. the quango guid follow last year's govern-commiss gershon report which recommend signific cut in bureaucraci across the public sector.

mr lewi want a public inquiri into region develop agenc which cost £1.8bn a year - cash he sai which "appear to be almost entir wast". as well as a department limit on quango he also want a statutori five-year limit on ani such bodi with execut power. he also list what he dub the nine "most useless quango". thei were the british potato council, the milk develop council, the energi save trust, agricultur wage committe, the wine standard board, the westminst foundat for democraci, the footbal licens author, investor in peopl uk and the econom and social research council. mr lewi brand the exist of the 60-employe potato council, set up in 1997 to research and promot oversea potato market, "surpris". he said the £80m spent annual on the energi save trust, which promot renew energi, would be better spent on eight million boiler jacket for british home.

and he argu it wa "absurd" to charg farmer for agricultur wage committe, which set work and wage standard in the industri, when mani were prepar to take advantag of immigr labour prepar to work for £1 an hour. "if a footbal team can afford to pai £27m for wayn roonei, why should the taxpay - not all of whom like footbal - be forc to fund the footbal licens author to the tune of over £1.1m a year?" mr lewi ask. the report is publish by the effici in govern unit - a joint effort by right of centr think tank the econom research council and the centr for polici studi. it sai befor a new public bodi is set up, an assess should be made whether it propos role is alreadi carri out by an exist chariti or other privat organis.
