howard back stem cell research

michael howard ha back stem cell research, sai it is import peopl ar not frighten of the futur.

the controversi issu wa a featur of the recent us presidenti elect, where georg bush oppos extend it. but the tori leader argu there wa a moral case for embrac scienc which could help victim of alzheim's, parkinson's and motor neuron diseas. "i believ we have a duti to offer hope to the million of peopl who suffer devast ill," he said. the us of embryon stem cell in the uk is alreadi allow. stem cell ar master cell that have the abil to develop into ani of the bodi's tissu type. scientist hope that by grow such cell in the laboratori thei can programm them to form specif tissu such as kidnei, heart or even brain tissu.

mr howard acknowledg there were genuin concern about stem cell research. but he argu: "we mustn't be frighten of chang or nostalg about the past - we must be optimist about the futur. "politician must creat the right framework so that the great potenti of scienc can be har for the benefit of mankind. "with the life expect of the averag briton now around the mid-70s, societi ha a respons to enhanc the qualiti of peopl's live as thei grow older. "i know mani peopl ar concern about stem-cell research. thei ar fear of meddl with what thei see as the stuff of soul. "i respect those concern. but i also believ we have a duti to offer hope to the million of peopl who suffer devast ill like parkinson's, multipl sclerosi, motor neuron diseas, alzheim's and - as we saw in the paper todai - now possibl heart problem."

mr howard acknowledg there were "no easi answer" over such an issu but it wa necessari to "have the courag to do what we know to be moral right". he ad: "of cours, stem cell ar still a recent discoveri. more research need to be done. but we must look at their potenti in a respons and grown-up wai. the hope of million of peopl rest on what could be achiev." former superman actor the late christoph reev wa an advoc for the research after he wa paralys in a hors ride accid. mr howard made hi remark dure a speech in westminst to the conserv nation women's committe on ambit and valu.
