howard unveil tori asylum plan

tori plan to cut immigr to the uk ar not racist and will make the asylum system fairer for genuin refuge, michael howard ha said.

as hi parti set out detail asylum reform plan, mr howard said thei would help smash peopl smuggl gang. there would be an annual limit on asylum and all claim would be process oversea. some chariti sai the plan would put refuge' live at risk if thei were turn awai onc quota were fill.

toni blair said labour would set out workabl plan for tackl immigr abus in the next few week and attack the tori plan. "by cut the number of front-line immigr staff at our border, thei will actual make the problem wors," said mr blair. liber democrat chairman matthew taylor said there need to be a quick, fair and firm asylum system. but he said it wa "absolut disgust" to propos a system which could turn awai genuin refuge. the conserv sai there is littl risk of thi happen as demand for asylum will be consid when quota ar set.

in a speech in london on mondai, mr howard said: "it's not racist, as some peopl to claim, to talk about control immigr far from it." he said that come from an immigr famili himself he recognis that "firm but fair" immigr control were essenti for good commun relat.


 - withdraw from the 1951 unit nation convent on refuge, which oblig countri to accept peopl be persecut on the basi of need, not number 
 - introduc law to allow the immedi remov of asylum seeker whose claim were clearli unfound becaus thei came from safe countri or had destroi document 
 - detain asylum seeker without document so peopl whose ident wa not known were not abl to move freeli around the uk - a worri for "nation secur" 
 - stop consid asylum applic insid the uk and instead take peopl from unit nation refuge agenc camp. anyon appli for asylum would be taken to new centr close to their countri of origin. 
 

the tori also want quota for those seek work permit through an australian-style point system and those want to join famili in the uk.

mr howard said nearli 160,000 peopl were settl in the uk everi year - the size of a citi like peterborough. the plan would help achiev a "substanti reduct" in immigr, he said, although he could not predict a figur. he said that onli two out of 10 asylum seeker had their claim accept under the current "unfair and inhuman" system.

"we need to break the link between arriv in britain and claim asylum," mr howard said. "by break that link we can smash the crimin gang at the heart of the trade in peopl smuggl."

but the un refuge agenc is worri the polici send the wrong messag to poorer countri which receiv the bulk of refuge. and a spokesman for european justic and home affair commission franco frattini said the plan would contraven eu asylum polici, which meant the uk could not simpli refus to hear an asylum case. refuge council chief execut maev sherlock call the plan "danger, ill thought-out and huge irrespons". live could be put at risk if refuge were turn awai onc the quota were fill, she warn. commiss for racial equal chairman trevor phillip said asylum applic were down 40% and econom migrat down about 10%.

he did not think mr howard intend to centr the debat about race. but he warn that some campaign could us hi word to hint the polici wa about keep out peopl of a differ colour or cultur. mr howard call that suggest "disgrac".
