campaign 'cold call' question

labour and the conserv ar still telephon the million of peopl who have sign up to make sure thei do not get market "cold call".

the parti sai thei can stick to the rule by ensur that their call ar not market - for instanc by ask about peopl's vote intent. the lib dem ar ask the watchdog overse the rule to stop the call. the inform commission's offic sai survei ar allow but there is a "grei" area if person data is kept. telephon call centr ar expect to be us as never befor by all the three major parti in the run-up to the gener elect.

but seven million telephon number ar on the telephon prefer servic (tp) list, which ban unsolicit sale and market call. both scheme ar run by the direct market associ and back by eu direct on privaci and electron commun.

the rule on market call appli as much to politician as to privat sector compani. but that doe not mean labour and the tori ar not call peopl sign up to the tp. a labour parti spokesman told the bbc new websit the parti avoid those on tp list when telephon peopl about membership or fundrais. but that did not happen for "voter identif" call. "when we ask which parti thei will vote for, that is not market and we have veri clear legal advic that it is not," he said. "so it is not cover by the telephon prefer servic."

he said the parti alwai ask peopl if thei would be happi to be contact again and if thei said no, thei were not rung again. a conserv spokeswoman said the parti stuck to the rule when it rang tp subscrib. she said: "we do appli tp but in line with the law. we would not do thing that ar not allow in the law." a spokesman for the inform commission's offic said it would be class as market if polit parti telephon peopl to encourag them to vote for them. but the rule did allow poll organis to telephon peopl about their vote intent if thei record them onli as part of a bigger set of statist, not person by person. "if a polit parti wa do that than it mai be that also would not be market," he said.

the spokesman said it might be consid unsolicit market if a parti record vote prefer with a view to market inform in the futur. the spokesman said there wa "no ye or no" answer and the area wa "pretti grei". he ad: "if someon complain, then we would investig that. polit parti ar awar of the regul. at the last by-elect, we remind them." lib dem chairman matthew taylor ha now written to the watchdog sai: "the advic we have receiv on sever previou occas is that such phone call ar illeg." he sai evid from local lib dem parti around the countri suggest there ar "signific" number of such call. "i hope you can therefor take swift and effici action to ensur that thi ceas," he tell the commission. mr taylor argu there should be new guidelin so all parti can act in the same wai if the watchdog believ the rule allow parti to ring tp number about vote intent and later urg those peopl to vote for them.
