tori leader quit legal posit

david mcletchi ha resign from hi post as a partner in a legal firm follow critic over hi dual role.

the scottish conserv leader had insist that hi legal work with tod murrai did not influenc the caus he support. but on fridai he said: "i have tender my resign as a partner with immedi effect." mr mcletchi had receiv advic from holyrood offici about what detail he need to declar. labour said he had "cleverli" not ask about paid advocaci. a tori spokesman "total refut" ani wrongdo.

mr mcletchi receiv advic from the clerk to the standard committe after concern over him sign a parliamentari motion question expans plan for edinburgh airport. the msp had been a partner for tod murrai which ha a client oppos the develop. mr mcletchi did not have a complaint made against him, but when concern were rais he sought guidanc from the standard committe to clarifi hi posit. he wa advis to exercis judgement to avoid the percept of a conflict and said he had done noth wrong.

explain hi reason for quit the post, mr mcletchi said: "i have been greatli concern by the recent public surround my associ with tod murrai. "howev, i have no wish to see a similar situat aris again. "to avoid ani misconcept in the futur and be mind of the good name of tod murrai and the confidenti to which it client ar entitl, i have brought forward the date of my retir from the firm which would otherwis have happen later thi year. "i am proud to have been a part of tod murrai for the last 29 year and wish it well in the futur."

labour msp christin mai had said mr mcletchi wa "veri clever" to ask the clerk to consid hi conduct in respect of section 5 of the code. "he wa almost bound to get the answer he want from thi enquiri sinc he stand accus of breach section 6, the section on paid advocaci," she said. section 5 of the member interest order legal oblig msp to declar registr interest befor take part in relat parliamentari proceed "where the interest would prejudic or give the appear of prejud their abil to particip in a disinterest manner". howev, msp' code of conduct "recognis a wider definit" of parliamentari proceed, includ a non-statutori requir to make a declar in relat to written notic, such as motion.

but a letter from holyrood's chamber offic chief ken hugh also made clear that mr mcletchi did not need to list ani of the client for whom he work as a solicitor. comment on mr mcletchi's decis to stand down, a scottish labour parti spokesman said: "thi should mean mr mcletchi doesn't breach the paid advocaci rule in futur. "howev it doesn't chang the fact that there should be a full investig into whether he ha done thi in the past."

scottish nation parti holyrood leader nicola sturgeon accus mr mcletchi of fail to properli serv hi constitu. ms sturgeon said: "i think thi whole episod ha been veri damag for mr mcletchi and i'm sure he will be reflect on it." she ad that she thought that the tori were an irrelev parti so she would not "lose ani sleep over it". peter misselbrook, execut partner of tod murrai said mr mcletchi had been consid retir later in the year. he ad: "david ha decid that thi announc should be made now and we fulli understand and appreci hi reason for do so."
