new 'yob' target to be unveil

fifti new area get special help to fight anti-social behaviour in england and wale will be name on thursdai.

ten area have alreadi had access to special prosecutor and local expert and the govern is now expand the crackdown to more town and citi. detail of how mani anti-social behaviour order (asbo) were us in the last year ar also be publish. labour see nuisanc behaviour as a kei elect issu but critic claim the record is at best patchi. a year ago, minist launch their anti-social behaviour plan and thursdai's figur offer a progress check. thei will sai that in the past year more than 2,600 anti-social behaviour order were issu by the court - more than doubl the total us in the previou four year.

polic have also close 150 crack hous and issu more than 400 dispers order, break up group of youth in public place. the 50 new pilot area to get special attent will also receiv extra govern fund. exet and cardiff ar among citi who have voic interest in be involv.

prime minist toni blair is also expect to announc new measur to strengthen the us of asbo and fix penalti notic. there ar still concern that some area of the countri ar not us the power properli.

he is expect to sai that the new figur were hearten but he would not rest until similar action wa taken in all area of the countri where it wa need. "we have not defeat thi problem by ani mean, but shown togeth what can be done," he will sai. mr blair thi week defend the shake-up of the licens law, sai it wa right to focu on troublemak rather than treat everybodi as a potenti drunken nuisanc.

minist also boast of record polic number and ar speed up plan to put in place 25,000 commun support offic (cso). but research from leed univers warn that cso could undermin tradit bond between polic offic and commun. more work need to be done on clarifi the role of differ agenc and how thei link togeth befor cso, thei argu in a the studi. critic of the govern sai it ha announc more than 20 initi to tackl nuisanc behaviour when the real focu should be on good polic. home offic minist hazel blear also reveal thi week that "about a third" of asbo were breach - with some peopl jail and other not.
