mcconnel in 'drunk' remark row

scotland's first minist ha told a group of high school pupil that it is okai to get drunk "onc in a while".

jack mcconnel wa speak to more than 100 secondari pupil from school in the highland about the problem of bing drink and drink promot. he ha been criticis by the snp for encourag young peopl to get drunk. but the scottish execut ha insist mr mcconnel wa speak about adult and hi comment were "a recognit that peopl will get drunk". the first minist's comment came in a question and answer session at glenurquhart high school in inver, attend by pupil from a number of secondari school. a highland councillor who wa at the event ha also defend mr mcconnel. margaret davidson, the independ member for the loch ness west, said the first minist wa speak in a veri gener wai and she wa sure he wa speak about adult at the time.

when on pupil ask mr mcconnel how the execut propos to tackl under-ag drink, began hi respons with the quip: "i'm sure there's no under-ag drink in the highland." he went on to speak about the evil of bing drink and rail against irrespons drink promot. he said: "i hope i'm not go to be seen as preach to anybodi here but the realli seriou problem at the moment is bing drink and the impact it ha on peopl's health and their abil to control what's happen round about them." mr mcconnel said he regularli saw report on the effect of bing drink spree which end in assault or even rape, and on the health consequ of bing drink. "the on thing we ar go to do someth realli seriou about is bing drink and irrespons drink promot that can help lead to that," he said. "far too mani pub chain in particular ar sell far too much booz far too cheapli and encourag peopl to drink it far too quickli. "we ar go to clamp down on that and make those promot illeg in the hope that peopl can enjoi a drink sensibl over the cours of an even."

he ad: "by all mean get drunk onc in a while - but do not get into a situat where peopl ar be encourag to get complet incap just to save some monei and drink more quickli." snp holyrood leader nicola sturgeon said: "thi is an incred gaff by jack mcconnel. "we all know that under-ag drink is an issu in scotland but it is quit stagger that ani politician, particularli the first minist, should encourag young peopl to get drunk. "the first minist should withdraw these remark immedi." but an execut spokeswoman insist mr mcconnel had made the remark with adult, not youngster, in mind. "he wa talk in the context of adult bing drink and irrespons drink promot - which ar for the over-18s," she said. "it wa just a recognit that peopl will get drunk, but that bing drink and drink promot that encourag it ar not accept."
