brown hit back in blair rift row

gordon brown ha criticis a union leader who said conflict between himself and toni blair wa harm the work of govern.

jonathan baum, of the top civil servant' union, spoke of "compet agenda" between mr brown and mr blair. but the chancellor said mr baum wa never at meet between himself and the prime minist so could not judg. he said the union leader wa try to block civil servic reform which threaten hi member' job. it suit the purpos of mr baum's union, the first divis associ, to suggest there were two agenda battl against each other becaus the union wa try to resist the plan reform, mr brown told bbc radio 4's todai programm.

under the plan, unveil in the gershon report, some 84,000 civil servant job will be ax or chang and the save plough back into frontlin servic. mr brown said: "to be honest i don't think you can reli on hi [mr baum's] judgement on thi matter when it come to the decis that the govern ar make. "mr blair and i ar make exactli the same decis on civil servic reform. we ar determin to go on with the gershon reform." he also said that as mr baum wa never present at meet between himself and the prime minist, he wa not in a posit to judg. on wednesdai, ahead of the chancellor's pre-budget report, mr baum told bbc new there were sometim "conflict and compet agenda for govern" between number 10 and the treasuri.

what the chancellor want wa "not by ani mean what alan milburn and the prime minist want to see", mr baum said. "govern depart get their monei from the treasuri on the basi of public servic agreement thei sign up to, but at the same time the prime minist also ha an agenda and that's not necessarili the same as the treasuri's and the prime minist is of cours a veri power figur in ani govern. "he also send instruct and messag and direct to depart about how he would like each secretari of state and each depart to implement a polici agenda. "the problem is that on mani occas these two don't add up and individu cabinet minist as well as depart have to make sens of thi battl." number 10 said minist were interest in govern and not a "soap opera" about mr blair and mr brown. tori shadow chancellor oliv letwin said: "the battl royal that the top civil servant ar now report on between the chancellor and toni blair is prevent them both from get on with the busi of get taxpay valu for monei."
