uk plan to deport terror suspect

deal ar be sought to allow the uk to deport terror suspect to their home countri without risk of them be tortur or sentenc to death.

home secretari charl clark told the time he hope agreement with sever countri could be reach. the move follow a law lord judgement that the detent of 12 men at belmarsh prison, london, and woodhil, milton keyn, wa unlaw. the 12 affect by the rule ar from algeria, tunisia, egypt and jordan. the govern wa told that us anti-terror legisl brought in after 11 septemb to hold the men indefinit without charg broke human right law.

mr clark told the time: "i think we should be prosecut much more energet our abil to deport the individu concern to the countri from which thei come." he said it wa a rout that wa be pursu in collabor with foreign secretari jack straw "in a veri posit wai". mr clark said that he wa seek "memorandum of understand" between oversea govern and britain to ensur suspect would not be subject to the death penalti on their return. howev, he ad: "i do not think the solut to the law lord' judgement for thi govern is in deport, but thei will help. "there ar other strand that we have to do." but the liber democrat's shadow home secretari, mark oaten, accus mr clark of avoid the main issu with the belmarsh detaine.

"the critic issu that the home secretari is dodg at thi stage is to deal with the veri principl, to deal with how we tackl thi problem in the futur," he told bbc new. "and i do want him to grasp those issu and that mean look at how we can actual secur convict in thi countri allow, for exampl, intercept commun, telephon tap to be includ," mr oaten said. "deport mai tackl thi initi problem but i want to see a wider debat urgent about how we can actual get trial and convict in thi countri." "unless we get that, the liber democrat will vote against thi measur when it come for renew in march."

the bbc's home affair correspond, daniel sandford, said it appear mr clark wa put more emphasi on the possibl of deport than hi predecessor, david blunkett. but he said reach an understand with some of the detaine' home countri could be difficult. "some of these peopl ar accus of veri, veri seriou crime in their home countri so it's not an easi agreement to get and i think for some of these suspect it won't be the solut." daniel sandford said minist mai try to put forward other solut - such as allow more secret evid to be put into normal crimin trial or develop a more secret trial process - in the next few week. "the govern mai try and deport some of them and then those that ar left see if thei can work out some wai of put them on trial," he said.
