blair stress prosper goal

toni blair sai hi parti's next manifesto will be "unremittingli new labour" and aim at produc "person prosper for all".

the prime minist is try to draw a line under specul over the state of hi relationship with gordon brown with the speech in chatham, kent. he is sai that prosper mean both individu wealth and ensur "radic improv" public servic. he is also claim labour is more ideolog unit than ever. mr brown is current tour africa after a week of face question about report of hi split with down street.

with the elect wide predict for mai, angri labour mp thi week warn mr blair and mr brown about the danger of disun. now mr blair is try to put the focu on the substanc of labour's platform for a third term in govern. labour made low inflat, unemploy and mortgag rate the centrepiec of a new poster campaign thi week.

and on thursdai mr blair is sai: "i want to talk about the central purpos ofnew labour - which is to increas person prosper and well-be, not justfor a few but for all. "by prosper i mean both the incom and wealth of individu and theirfamili, and the opportun and secur avail to them through radicallyimprov public servic and a reform welfar state."

the tori ar try to capitalis on the appar feud at the top of govern. on wednesdai thei unveil a poster which pictur the prime minist and mr brown under the word "how can thei fight crime when thei ar fight each other?" michael howard and frontbench john redwood on thursdai launch new plan to abolish hundr of quango. thei sai govern is spend too much and lower tax ar need to make britain more competit.

the liber democrat have also claim infight it obstruct good govern. the latest specul about relat between new labour's two most power figur came after the public of a new book, brown's britain by robert preston. in it he alleg that mr blair told mr brown in 2003 he would step down as prime minist befor the come gener elect. the book claim the premier went back on hi pledg after support from cabinet alli and suspicion that mr brown wa manoeuvr against him. mr peston's book claim that mr brown told mr blair: "there is noth you could ever sai to me now that i could ever believ." on wednesdai mr blair directli deni mr brown made that quot, and befor he left for africa on tuesdai the chancellor told report: "of cours i trust the prime minist."
