guantanamo man 'su govern'

a british terror suspect held in guantanamo bai for 33 month plan to sue the govern, it is report.

martin mubanga claim in the observ that an mi6 offic plai a kei role in consign him to the us camp in cuba, follow hi arrest in zambia. mr mubanga, 32, from wemblei, london, said he wa brutal interrog and daub with urin at the camp. the home secretari said he would not be launch an investig and that the media report were not "well inform". mr mubanga, who ha dual british and zambian nation, wa on of four briton who were releas from the us camp in januari.

he said he wa sent there after be interrog by a british man who said he wa from mi6, shortli after hi arrest in zambia in march 2002. mr mubanga said he had been in afghanistan and pakistan to studi islam. but he said he wa unabl to return to the uk becaus he had lost hi british passport, and wa travel on hi zambian passport instead. mr mubanga said the "mi6 agent" told him the passport had been found in a cave in afghanistan along with document list jewish group in new york and suggest he had been on an al-qaeda reconnaiss mission. mr mubanga said the man, and an american femal defenc offici, tri to recruit him as an agent, but he refus and within three week wa told he would be sent to guantanamo bai.

hi lawyer louis christian said: "'we ar hope to issu proceed for the misfeas of offici who collud with the american in effect kidnap him and take him to guantanamo." and menzi campbel, the liber democrat' foreign affair spokesman, said it wa vital to establish whether minist approv mr mubanga's transfer to guantanamo. but a foreign offic spokesman said he could not comment on the activ of british intellig or secur agenc. and home secretari charl clark told bbc on's breakfast with frost: "i'm not organis a specif investig into it." mr mubanga is the first of the four detaine freed last month to give a media interview. he told the observ hi worst moment wa when he wa told he would be releas last march, onli to be confin and told he would be there for mani more year.

he claim he wa strip of hi cloth and mattress and forc to remain in an empti metal box, nake except for boxer short. and he said an interrog us a mop to daub him with hi own urin while he wa chain hand and foot. mr mubanga, who insist he doe not feel bitter, said: "i've lost three year of my life, becaus i wa a muslim. he ad: "the author want to break me but thei strengthen me. thei've made me what i am - even if i'm not quit sure yet who that person is." the us govern deni the claim, sai it condemn and prohibit tortur. in a statement, it said: "the depart of defens ha no doubt that mr mubanga wa properli detain as an enemi combat under the law of war. "he wa detain to prevent him from fight against the us and our alli in the war on terror." but fair trial abroad director stephen jakobi said there were similar between mr mubanga's account and those of other guantanamo detaine. he said: "the pattern is the same. the real problem is the concentr camp condit in guantanamo. "is [charl clark] realli pretend thi is all made up?" mr mubanga and the three other freed british detaine were releas without charg by uk polic on their return from cuba.
