council tax rise 'reason'

welsh council should set their tax at "reason level" after be given an averag fund increas of 6%, sai the assembl govern.

financ minist sue essex said it wa a "good deal" for local govern. the £3.2bn settlement includ the "full" £7.4m from the uk treasuri announc by chancellor gordon brown. but opposit parti said reband of council tax would mean steep rise. in addit, £13.4m will come from the busi support grant - a scheme which enabl local author to keep part of busi rate. she said where spend rise were kept to around 5% she wa "confid that council will be abl to set council tax at reason level." the welsh local govern associ (wlga) had said on the ev of the announc said that "signific" cut to servic mai still be unavoid. after the announc wlga financ spokesman bob wellington, of torfaen, said it wa vital that rise were minims. "a limit amount of monei ha come avail but thi is not the answer to our problem," said mr wellington. "it is vital that we start now to plan for futur year and accept that resourc will continu to reduc while pressur on servic increas." on mondai, a deleg of north wale council visit ms essex to lobbi for increas fund. ms essex said: "i have listen to the view of local govern and council tax payer and recognis the fund pressur and the concern thei have about council tax rise. "i have met a larg number of local author in recent week and i am awar of the pressur on them to provid local servic and keep down the level of council tax, particularli for those peopl to ar move up a band due to the revalu of domest properti." she said council tax could be kept at reason level, "even for those peopl who have move up a band".

the settlement includ a rise in the grant to help council with the most depriv commun and a 16.4% rise in capit expenditur support. ms essex said: "thi is a good deal for local govern, which will allow the well-manag council of wale to develop their servic and charg reason level of council tax. it is now a matter for council leader to manag their budget at a local level." plaid cymru's local govern spokesman dai lloyd call the announc "huge disappoint". he said: "wale and it local author have been short chang yet again. thi is not whing as the labour assembl govern so often claim - it is anger." "thi will mean either a massiv hike in council tax, massiv cut in servic provid by council, or both." mike german, leader of the liber democrat in the assembl, claim that on in three home were still like to face council tax rise due to reband. mr german said: "i know from my discuss with welsh liber democrat council leader that thei ar do their utmost to keep council tax to a minimum. but the random redistribut effect of reband...will creat a great deal of difficulti." conserv local govern spokesman glyn davi said that for the minist to claim that the major of council tax payer in wale should see veri littl chang "is take spin to the veri verg of decept". he ad: "around a third of welsh household have been re-valu upward by at least on band and inevit face increas into doubl figur."
