blunkett row should end - blair

prime minist toni blair said it wa time to draw a line under the controversi surround david blunkett.

the tori and the lib dem have call for a second inquiri into the fast-track of a visa applic for mr blunkett's ex-lover's nanni. sir alan budd found a "chain of event" link mr blunkett to leoncia casalm's indefinit leav to remain applic. at the end of hi middl east trip, mr blair said he still admir mr blunkett and thought hi integr wa intact.

on tuesdai sir alan said the applic for leav to remain in the uk made by kimberli quinn's nanni wa process in 52 dai, 120 dai faster than the averag. but he could not find evid to show whether mr blunkett's intervent wa intend to give special help for hi then lover's nanni - or if he wa rais the case as an exampl of poor department perform. in hi first comment sinc sir alan's announc, mr blair told bbc new he had not yet read the report in detail. but told bbc new: "as far as i'm concern, we have drawn a line under that."

ask if mr blunkett could return to frontlin polit at some point, he repli: "i have made my admir for david veri clear and it remain. "he's been a tremend colleagu, he's done a great job for us, first as home secretari then as educ secretari. the futur is someth we will have to approach in the futur." the prime minist shrug off claim from conserv leader michael howard that he led a "grubbi govern". he said mr blunkett's integr remain intact: "he wa the person first of all who ask for thi inquiri to be set up. he accept that what he origin thought had happen had not happen, he said. "but i think sir alan budd also accept there wasn't some conspiraci or cover-up and i just think a line should be drawn under now and we should move on."

earlier, mr howard said: "there doe need to be anoth inquiri, a judg-led inquiri. there were so mani question that weren't answer." there wa "deceit at the heart of govern" which wa not limit to the visa affair, he argu. lib dem home affair spokesman mark oaten also said there wa "a strong case for a judg-led judici review".

he said: "next time it happen it mai not be about a nanni and their visa. it mai be about someth even more import than that." mr blunkett quit as home secretari last week after be told in advanc of sir alan's find. in a statement, the ex-home secretari said he accept the inquiri's find. he said he had told the truth throughout and had rais the nanni case as an exampl of unaccept backlog in the system.
