minimum rate for foster parent

foster carer ar to be guarante a minimum allow to help cover their cost, the govern ha announc.

payment level vari from area to area, with some carer get just £50 a week for cloth, food and other cost. minist for children, young peopl and famili margaret hodg said new plan will ensur foster' allow would be as fair as possibl. howev local author, which set and pai the allow, ar concern about how the extra cash will be found. about 50,000 children live with foster famili in the uk and carer have said thei need more monei to make end meet.

ms hodg said: "foster carer must not be out of pocket when meet the cost of care for a look after child - a crucial role in societi. "we need to make sure that arrang for pai foster carer ar as fair and transpar as possibl. "our propos for a nation minimum rate show we ar seriou about creat a better deal for foster carer and about encourag more peopl to come forward and consid foster as a worthwhil and reward opportun." the govern is seek to amend the children bill, which pass through the common next week, to establish a nation minimum payment.

foster network execut director robert tapsfield criticis the exist system. "there is just no logic to a system which valu children differ depend on where thei live. "and with a shortag of over 8,000 foster carer in england, it's not a sustain situat to expect carer to fund foster care from their own pocket." the chariti recommend a weekli payment of £108.49 for look after a babi. in a survei, it discov that rate paid by neighbour author could vari by as much as £100 per week.

the associ of director of social servic (adss) said it agre in principl with the govern's plan. toni hunter, the organis's presid, said: "there ar mani devil and lot of detail hidden within the govern's propos. "but adss fulli support proper remuner for valu foster carer and look forward to work with minist, local govern and the foster organis themselv in order to make sure a sensibl and practic polici emerg."
