royal coupl watch nation's mood

princ charl and camilla parker bowl ar await the nation's reaction after announc thei ar to be marri on 8 april.

mr parker bowl will take the titl hrh duchess of cornwal after a civil ceremoni to be held at windsor castl. a daili telegraph poll of 1,313 peopl suggest two-third of briton support the coupl's decis to marri. but onli 40% think mr parker bowl should becom princess consort as plan after charl becom king. some 47% believ she should have no titl, while 7% think she should becom queen.

the poll also found that the major of briton would prefer the monarchi to miss a gener, with the queen hand the throne to her grandson princ william, 22, on her death or abdic. on thursdai night, princ charl, 56, and mr parker bowl, 57, host a dinner at windsor castl, their first public appear sinc announc their engag. mr parker bowl said the princ went down on on knee to propos and ad: "i'm just come down to earth." she displai her diamond engag ring - a royal famili heirloom - to report. charl said he and hi wife-to-be were "absolut delight". their marriag will end year of specul on a relationship which date back to 1970.

the queen and duke of edinburgh said the new had made them "veri happi". princ william and harri said thei ar "veri happi" and wish the coupl "all the luck in the futur". the wed will be a civil ceremoni follow by a servic of prayer and dedic in st georg's chapel at which the archbishop of canterburi, dr rowan william, will presid.

the marriag is like to be a sensit issu becaus mr parker bowl is divorc and her former husband is still aliv. if he becam king, charl would be the suprem governor of the church of england and some anglican remain oppos to the remarriag of divorce. "hi divorc from diana and the disappoint the countri felt over how diana had been treat... open up a sens of disillusion with [princ charl]," said ro coward, who wrote the authoris biographi of diana, princess of wale. the archbishop of canterburi said: "i am pleas that princ charl and mr camilla parker bowl have decid to take thi import step." toni blair said he wa "delight" for the coupl and offer hi congratul, as did conserv leader michael howard and liber democrat leader charl kennedi. australia's prime minist john howard also offer hi congratul, ad that their decis to marri wa a "sensibl and a good thing". mr parker bowl ha join the princ at numer engag in recent year - mostli at even event for the princ's trust. clarenc hous staff were at pain to point out that she attend these event in a privat capac.
