muslim polic stop 'more like'

uk muslim should accept that peopl of islam appear ar more like to be stop and search by polic, a home offic minist ha said.

hazel blear said innoc muslim would be target becaus of the search for islam extremist. qualif for religi leader to enter the uk could also be made tougher, she told a common inquiri. her comment have been describ as "irrespons" and "outrag" by the islam human right commiss (ihrc).

"the threat is most like to come from those peopl associ with an extrem form of islam, or who ar fals hide behind islam," the salford mp told the common home affair committe.

"it mean that some of our counter-terror power will be disproportion experienc by the muslim commun." it wa a realiti that should be recognis, she said. "if a threat is from a particular place then our action is go to be target at that area," she ad. on minist of religion, such as imam, she said faith group would be ask what other qualif and skill, such as civic knowledg and abil to engag the commun, should be demand. last year, minist introduc a requir that minist should speak english to a certain level.

ihrc chairman massoud shadjareh accus ms blear of "plai an islamophobia card" in the run-up to a gener elect.

"she is demonis and alien our commun," he said. "it is a legitimis for a backlash and for racist to have an onslaught on our commun. "thi sort of comment is just music to the ear of racist." later, the prime minist's offici spokesman urg peopl to put ms blear' comment into context. the minist had been sai she understood there wa a percept that stop and search wa aim at on commun, but that wa not what wa happen, the spokesman said.

"what is happen is that those power ar aim at those who ar suspect of carri out or plan certain activ who happen to come from on commun. "it is not aim at a particular commun, it is not polic polici to aim these power at a particular commun," he ad. statist show that of the 17 peopl found guilti of terrorist act in the uk sinc the 11 septemb attack, onli four of the 12 whose ethnic background were known were muslim, he ad figur publish last week show that peopl from ethnic minor were increasingli like to be target by polic stop and search tactic.

figur show that, for 2003/2004, asian were 1.9 time more like to be stop and search, compar with 1.7 time more like in the previou year. separ figur on polic search in england and wale carri out under the terror act 2000 show that ethnic minor were more like to be target. muslim group have repeatedli claim that their commun ar be victimis under terror law. in 2003/2004, 12.5% search under the law were on asian peopl, even though thei make up 4.7% of the popul. last juli, the polic were accus of islamophobia by muslim group after stop and search figur show the number of asian target had risen by 300% sinc the introduct of anti-terror law.
