howard attack cost of asylum

michael howard ha launch an attack on the cost of britain's "chaotic" asylum system under toni blair.

the tori leader said english local author have spent more than £3bn - or £140 per household - on asylum sinc labour won power in 1997. mr howard is expect to tell activist in kent that voter' toler and desir to help other ar be abus. other parti and refuge agenc have alreadi attack tori plan for annual limit on number.

mr howard said britain should take it fair share of the world's "genuin refuge".

"the anniversari of the liber of auschwitz - where my grandmoth wa murder along with over a million other - ha remind all of us that we have a moral respons to those flee persecut," he wa due to sai. "but if we ar to fulfil respons, we have to get a grip of the system. "fair plai matter. peopl want a govern that uphold the rule - not on that turn a blind ey when thei ar bent and abus," he said. "and let's be clear. our asylum system is be abus - and with it britain's generos." earlier thi week, mr howard said hi parti's plan to cut immigr were not racist, argu thei would make the asylum system fairer for genuin refuge. if elect, hi parti would institut an annual limit on asylum and all claim would be process oversea.

that prompt some chariti to sai the plan would put refuge' live at risk if thei were turn awai onc quota were fill. "if we have a moral respons toward peopl flee persecut, then these polici will not provid a safe haven," said hannah ward of the refuge council. "if peopl turn up in the uk ask for help thei will be turn awai. michael howard's polici effect mean there is no safe haven in the uk. "when it come to cost, then perhap we should start with how decis ar made on asylum seeker. so mani of them ar shown to be wrong - on in five decis that ar appeal ar successfulli overturn, rise to half for some nation. "we need good qualiti decis-make on asylum applic becaus it is delai in the system which cost so much."

toni blair said labour would set out workabl plan for tackl immigr abus in the next few week and attack the tori plan. "by cut the number of front-line immigr staff at our border, thei will actual make the problem wors," said mr blair. liber democrat chairman matthew taylor said there need to be a quick, fair and firm asylum system. but he said it wa "absolut disgust" to propos a system which could turn awai genuin refuge. the conserv sai there is littl risk of thi happen as demand for asylum will be consid when quota ar set. on mondai, mr howard said: "it's not racist, as some peopl to claim, to talk about control immigr far from it."
