kilroi launch 'verita' parti

ex-bbc chat show host and east midland mep robert kilroi-silk ha said he want to "chang the face of british polit" as he launch hi new parti.

mr kilroi-silk, who recent quit the uk independ parti,said "our countri" wa be "stolen from us" by mass immigr. he told a london new confer that verita - latin for "truth" - would avoid the old parti' "li and spin". ukip leader roger knapman sai he wa glad to see the back of mr kilroi-silk.

mr kilroi-silk promis a "firm but fair" polici on immigr and said thei hope to contest most seat at the forthcom gener elect. he said verita would also announc detail polici on crime, tax, pension, health and defenc over the next few week. and he announc the parti would be hold a leadership elect. on thursdai he is due to announc which constitu he will run in at the next gener elect - that will come amid specul he ha hi sight set on defenc secretari geoff hoon's ashfield seat. he wa join in the new ventur by on of ukip's two london assembl member, damien hocknei who is now verita' deputi leader. ukip's chairman petrina holdsworth ha said the group will just be a parodi of the parti the men have left.

mr kilroi-silk announc hi decis to quit ukip at a public meet in hincklei, leicestershir last week. it came after month of tension as he vi unsuccessfulli for the leadership of that parti. he said he wa asham to be a member of a ukip whose leadership had "gone awol" after the great opportun offer by it third place at last june's european elect. "while ukip ha turn it back on the british peopl, i shall not," he said. "i will be stand at the next gener elect. i shall be lead a vigor campaign for the caus i believ in. "and, unlik the old parti, we shall be honest, open and straight."

mr hocknei also left ukip sai mr kilroi-silk would "deliv better" as the leader of a euroscept parti. a spokesman for ukip call on mr hocknei to quit the london assembl. the parti assert that mr hocknei "ha a moral oblig, if not a legal on" to stand down. it leader, roger knapman, ha said he is glad to see the back of mr kilroi-silk. "he ha remark abil to influenc peopl but, sadli, after the [european] elect it becam clear that he wa more interest in the robert kilroi-silk parti than the uk independ parti so it wa nice know him, now 'goodby'," he said. ukip offici also argu mr kilroi-silk ha not been "straightforward" in attack the parti he onc want to lead.

thi is just what the europhil prai for. as the main euroscept parti, ukip should try to resolv it differ with kilroi to show a unit front and give the uk public a seriou polit voic against europ. have multipl parti with the same view point just split the vote further.

thank good that kilroi-silk ha gone - now ukip at least ha a chanc in the elect!

it is veri sad to see the caus of britain regain it proper relationship with europ damag by thi split within ukip. robert kilroi-silk could have a lot to offer. instead we have a split parti and a damag caus. under the present elector system, peopl must work togeth, and small parti have no hope of represent. last summer, ukip achiev a major advanc, partli and onli partli due to kilroi-silk. it is a great shame thi ha been dissip in in-fight.

ukip ha a wide platform of polici, not just withdraw from the eu. thi kilroi-silk conveni ignor in the comment surround the launch of hi own parti. neither the english democrat nor the new parti were interest in let him join them and take over their leadership speak volum. verita is the begin of the end for kilroi-silk.

if he believ in truth and democraci then he and the two assembl member should resign and forc a by-elect to stand on their own platform rather than thi backdoor approach to polit of be elect for on parti then defect to anoth.

so ukip wa good enough for him to lead, not good enough for him to follow!

interest that a parti commit to plain speak should have a latin name!

everi opinion poll point to an overwhelm anti-europ feel in thi countri. kilroi-silk could be on the verg of someth huge if he can broaden hi appeal beyond thi on issu. he is an extrem abl commun with year of polit experi. we want qualiti school, top hospit, clean and effici public transport, punish that fit the crime, limit asylum, a purg on bureaucraci and less tax. it need courag and honesti, two qualiti sadli lack in our politician. kilroi-silk mai just have those veri qualiti. recruit the right colleagu, robert, and your time mai have come!

well if you cannot get enough limelight be an ordinari mp then go out and start up your own parti. it's all flash and no real polici here

let's hope thi is the start of both ukip and kilroi-silk slip into obscur.

verita? the name will doom it. but perhap i am wrong for sure all modern schoolchildren will understand it sinc thei do still learn latin in the classroom do thei not? the whole essenc of what rk repres is eurosceptic, so explain to me how the too-twee label of verita symbolis that?
