new drink limit 'would cut toll'

more live than previous thought could be save by cut drink-drive limit by a third, a report sai.

univers colleg london research claim cut the limit from 80mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood to 50mg would save 65 live a year. the find ar be publish by the parliamentari advisori council for transport safeti as mp ar due to vote on the govern's road safeti bill. the bill includ chang to speed fine but not to the drink-drive limit. the research, carri out by transport expert professor richard allsop, sai cut the limit would also lead to 230 fewer seriou injuri on the uk's road compar with 2003. he estim that thi would save the countri £119m a year.

a previou estim, contain in a 1998 depart of transport document, suggest such a move could save 50 live a year. the find ar base on the assumpt that driver who current keep below the legal limit would continu to do so were it to be lower and that those who tend to exce the limit slightli would also lower their drink. professor allsop said: "reduc the limit from 80mg to 50mg can be expect to save around 65 live a year or around half of those who die in accid where the driver's bac [blood alcohol content] is within 30mg of the current limit. "onli about on in 50 of those drive dure weekend even and night will need to moder their drink to achiev thi and fewer still at other time."

minist do not support a lower limit, sai it is not clear it would have a major impact on drink drive casualti. thei believ educ driver is more import. the aa motor trust said it wa not sure what affect drop the limit would have on driver' attitud to drink-drive. road safeti head andrew howard said: "it remain to be seen whether the social disapprov of the drink driver will stai at the current rate if the alcohol limit is cut.

"parliamentarian need to consid thi carefulli. briton polic themselv by consensu much more effect than thei do by weight of enforc alon." liber democrat transport spokesman john thurso said drink-drive remain a "major killer", with figur show a worri rise in the number of accid involv driver who had been drink. he said there had been a 29% drop in the number of driver be breathalys sinc 1997, which he said the govern need to address if it want to reduc the danger caus by drink-drive. the road safeti bill, which get it second read on tuesdai, would allow the result of roadsid breath test to be us in court - current a blood test is need. it also includ plan for a stagger speed fine and point system, penalis driver who exce limit by a wide margin more than those who ar caught go just over. these have been criticis by road safeti campaign, includ labour backbench gwyneth dunwoodi, who sai it will reduc the incent for driver to stai within the limit in residenti area, lead to more road casualti. in an articl for the time newspap, ms dunwoodi, who chair the transport select committe, sai: "slight increas to low car speed increas huge the risk to pedestrian and cyclist. "it is quit simpl: if you hit someon at 30mph, thei have a 50 per cent chanc of surviv. if you ar go at 40mph, nine time out of ten thei will die."
