csa 'could close', sai minist

minist would not rule out scrap the child support agenc if it fail to improv, work and pension secretari alan johnson ha warn.

but he said replac the controversi csa would be "the nuclear option". a report by the common work and pension committe call for the agenc to be wound up unless it improv it servic within week. chairman sir archi kirkwood said: "if the agenc cannot be rescu, then it must be replac."

the committe reach it conclus after it found that nearli 250,000 case have yet to be process. it warn that it could be five year befor the csa wa "fit for purpos", describ it as "a fail organis" and "in crisi" with parent face payment delai and inaccur mainten calcul. the report urg the csa to draw up conting plan, includ the "abandon option", to be present to parliament by easter, in case the cs2 comput system could not be made to work.

and respond to call for the agenc to be scrap, mr johnson told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "i certainli wouldn't rule out the nuclear option of move to a complet new system. "but i think the select committe would agre with me we would onli do that when we were absolut convinc that thi system just isn't go to work."

the mp launch their inquiri into the csa's perform after it becam clear that, despit the introduct of a simpler system of calcul mainten payment for new case in 2003, a backlog of claim wa build up. the mp found the £456m system from american it giant ed wa "nowher near be fulli function and the number of dissatisfi, disench and angri custom continu to escal". face with the committe's critic, the govern ha suspend it plan to cut the agenc's staff by 25%. the csa ha been surround in controversi sinc it introduct in 1993 to assess and enforc child support payment by absent parent.

it is current chase outstand payment of more than £720m, while a further £947m ha been design as "unrecover".

michel, a mother of twin, said she had not receiv a penni of the £57 a week she should be receiv from her ex-partner and had face an "on-go battl" with the csa. her form have twice been lost in the post, she said. "i don't receiv correspond, i don't receiv phone call, i have to chase them all the time," she said. theresa mai, tori shadow work and pension secretari, said: "we have got to find a wai that's go to ensur those payment get through to the peopl who ar due them." the agenc's former chief execut doug smith quit last autumn claim he wa "serious disappoint" with it perform. the committe said the nation audit offic should investig why the ed system had gone so badli wrong. it blame the agenc's senior manag for a "multitud of problem" within the agenc, includ for an appar lack of train of frontlin staff.
