bid to cut court wit stress

new target to reduc the stress to victim and wit give evid in court in england and wale have been announc by the lord chancellor.

lord falcon want all crown court and 90% of magistr' court to have facil to keep wit separ from defend within four year. more video link will also be made avail so that wit do not have to enter courtroom. it is part of a five-year plan to help build confid in the justic system.

minist sai the strategi is aim at re-balanc the court system toward victim, and increas the number of offend brought to justic. launch the depart for constitut affair' plan, lord falcon said: "on of the top prioriti will be a better deal for victim. "the need and safeti of victim will be at the heart of the wai trial ar manag.

"court, judg, magistr, prosecutor, polic and victim support - all work togeth to ensur the right of victim ar put first, without compromis the right of the defend." he went on: "give evid is a nerv-wrack experi, especi when you're a victim. "yet with a will and with support it can be done." lord falcon told bbc radio 4's todai programm it wa imposs for some elderli peopl to go to court to give evid. other wit could be intimid by sit alongsid defend outsid court. "you ar never go to get rid of some element of the trauma of give evid," he said. "but you can make peopl believ that the court understand the problem, it's not some kind of alien place where thei go where thei ar not think about them."

the plan come as the lord chancellor also consid allow camera into court for the first time sinc 1925, as long as thei were us for case that did not involv wit. anoth featur of the strategi is constitut reform, with a govern bill to set up a suprem court and a judici appoint commiss return to the hous of lord on tuesdai. minist had propos get rid of the titl of lord chancellor, but the lord have over-rule thi. lord falcon said it wa right for the highest court to be complet distinct from parliament. the person in charg of the court system should not also be speaker of the hous of lord, he said, and should be the best person chosen from either hous of parliament. what thei did, not what thei were call, wa the critic issu, he ad.
