lord scarman, 93, di peacefulli

distinguish lawyer lord scarman, who conduct the inquiri into the 1981 brixton riot, ha di ag 93.

the peer enjoi a celebr judici career, serv as law commiss chairman in it first seven year. he also chair the 1969 tribun set up to investig civil disturb in northern ireland. pai tribut, the lord chancellor lord falcon said lord scarman wa on of the "great advoc of our gener".

"hi legaci from hi decis in the lord and the court of appeal is substanti. "hi work in the wake of the brixton riot and hi commit to the vulner and dispossess wa second to none.

"a great judg, a great lawyer and a great man." lord scarman's nephew georg ritchi said the peer, who pass awai peacefulli on wednesdai, would be "sadli miss".

the lord chief justic, lord woolf, who is the most senior judg in england and wale, said it wa lord scarman's "pioneer work" which pave the wai for the human right act 1998. "he wa a lawyer and a judg who had a remark insight into human natur, and an except sensit to the need of a healthi societi," he said. "he wa, person, total charm and he will be rememb with great affect and admir by all who came into contact with him."

dame elizabeth butler-sloss, the presid of the famili justic divis, said lord scarman wa a "good and human judg" and on of the greatest figur of the late 20th centuri. lord scarman will be rememb for the public inquiri he led into a string of race riot which began in brixton when racial tension rose after a polic crackdown on street robberi. dure the follow three dai of disturb that spread to the midland, merseysid, bristol and leed, nearli 400 peopl were injur and build and vehicl were set alight.

the inquiri famous settl on the so-call "rotten appl" theori, which argu that onli a few polic offic were racist, sai most were not. it spawn new law enforc practic and led to the creation of the polic complaint author. trevor phillip, chair of the commiss for racial equal, prais lord scarman's "abil to listen". he said: "when lord scarman tour the street of brixton hi presenc wa electrifi. "a commun which had been systemat ignor by everyon els wa suddenli embrac by the epitom of the english establish. "hi great qualiti wa the abil to listen to young peopl of all background, mani of whose languag he could bare understand, genuin to hear what thei had to sai and to talk to them as human be. "he never lost the special combin of wisdom, human and the spark of radic that mark hi watersh report into the brixton riot."
