tori leader urg harri apolog

princ harri should person make clear how sorri he is about wear a nazi uniform to a friend's fanci dress parti, sai tori leader michael howard.

mr howard, whose grandmoth di in auschwitz, said mani peopl would be offend by the princ's action clarenc hous ha issu a statement sai the princ ha apologis and realis it had been a poor costum. number 10 said an error wa made but now harri had apologis the matter should be left to the palac. that wa a messag repeat by home secretari charl clark who said the matter should now be left to lie.

but lib dem leader charl kennedi said harri wa in a privileg posit and said he should apologis in person. "there is a reservoir of goodwil for princ harri, and princ william with him, in thi countri, but i think he need to rememb that it can't last forev." he ad that sandhurst would probabl be good for harri as it would teach him some self disciplin. former labour mp lord janner, who is a high profil member of britain's jewish commun, brand harri's action's "stupid and evil". he told itv: "the time ha come for him to make a public apolog. it is about common decenc, of respect to the peopl who fought the nazi, to the famili of those who were kill by the nazi and to peopl who suffer dure the holocaust." he ad: "i would send him in the armi as fast as possibl. i hope that would teach him not to behav like that."

a photograph of princ harri wear a swastika armband and german desert uniform at the parti appear in thursdai's sun newspap under the headlin: "harri the nazi." mr howard acknowledg the princ's apolog and said he had no doubt the princ's father and famili would have much to sai to him privat about the incid. but he told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "it might be appropri to tell us himself just how contrit he is." mr howard declin to sai what form the statement should take. but former buckingham palac press spokesman dicki arbit said the princ should make a person, broadcast apolog. mr clark said he recognis peopl's concern about the costum but argu: "he ha apologis and i think we should leav the matter there."
