nh wait time target is cut

hospit wait time for patient in wale ar to be cut, but not to the same extent as those in england.

welsh health minist jane hutt said no patient would wait more than 12 month for an outpati appoint by march 2006, against a current target of 18 month. but she said the target for an inpati appoint would remain at 12 month for march 2006. the announc came as new monthli wait figur show a drop. thi current inpati target wa set when the assembl govern extend it second offer guarante scheme, which give patient the option of have their treatment outsid wale.

detail about fund to resourc the new target ar expect in the new year. in england, the current target for inpati - see a consult to have an oper - is six month. dr richard lewi, welsh secretari of the british medic associ (bma), welcom the new target "to make further and faster progress on wait list". "howev, much remain to be done on wait list and wait time becaus wale still lag a long wai behind england," he said. "capac must be built into the system with sustain invest to ensur that welsh patient don't receiv a wors servic than patient over the border." health analyst toni beddow, from the welsh institut for health and social care, call the new target "reason impress".

on wednesdai, ms hutt also announc £264m for health servic will be spent reduc wait time, improv kei area and modernis staff pai structur in wale.

ms hutt said major achiev had been made in cut "unaccept long wait for treatment over the past year". "we ar turn the corner on long wait in wale. now we need to see those reduct in long waiter be improv again," she said. she ad the target intend to ensur no-on wait more than a year for treatment or to see a consult. "but let us not forget two third of those wait for treatment now ar wait less than six month, and these target affect the small minor of patient in wale that ar wait far too long." rhodri glyn thoma, plaid cymru health spokesman said: "it's exactli the same target she set in 1999, with the qualif that it's depend on a second offer. it's a fail target, from a fail minist..with a fail polici." for the welsh liber democrat, kirsti william call the new target "huge unambiti". "it leav patient in wale still wait two year befor thei're treat." conserv health spokesman jonathan morgan said: "we're spend more monei but wait list have gone through the roof. "the audit commiss ha said that the monei is not be spent effici or effect, and that's quit a critic." meanwhil, the latest monthli wait list figur show the total number of peopl wait more than 18 month as an inpati in wale ha fallen by 9.8%. statist to the end of novemb show a declin sinc octob from 785 to 708. the number wait over 12 month also fell from 7,613 to 6,630, or 12.9%. ms hutt said thei were "excel figur". there ar 305,775 peopl on a wait list of some kind, down from 311,764 last month.
