wale 'must learn health lesson'

the new health minist for wale sai there ar lesson to learn from england in tackl wait list.

dr brian gibbon, on hi first full dai in the job after jane hutt wa sack, admit "big challeng" but insist the "essenti" were in place. but both plaid cymru and the liber democrat said dr gibbon need to chang polici. meanwhil ms hutt defend her record, sai wait time and list were "onli 10% of the health agenda. dr gibbon, who wa a gp in blaengwynfi, in the upper afan vallei, befor becom am for aberavon, said nh staff want a period of consolid after "tremend chang and reform". on of the biggest problem which had face ms hutt dure her five-and-a-half year as the assembl's first health minist wa the length of wait list in wale.

in novemb the british medic associ said nh staff were "weep with despair" as figur show 311,000 peopl were wait for treatment in wale, up by 2,400 on the previou month. in the same month list in england were at their lowest for 17 year, with 856,600 peopl wait for treatment. dr gibbon told radio wale: "there is no doubt that, in manag wait list, england ha done a lot of veri veri us work, and we do need to learn from that."

but he said the nh in wale also need to creat a healthier popul rather than respond onli to ill health, and a balanc view of prioriti wa import. "we do need a consist across-the-board approach, recognis the patient' experi of how thei us the servic is go to be, at the end of the dai, the main test of how the servic is work." he said nh staff want a period of consolid after "tremend chang and reform". later, dr gibbon prais the work of ms hutt, sai he "agre with everyth she's done" to chang the health servic in wale. dr gibbon said he accept there wa a problem, but hi job now wa to build on the foundat put in place by hi predecessor. he also acknowledg that until the wait list issu wa sort out, the rest of the assembl govern's health polici would be overshadow.

opposit member and some labour mp had long call for ms hutt's remov after sustain critic over extend hospit wait time. first minist rhodri morgan told bbc wale he had agre with ms hutt in 2003 that she would not be health minist in the run-up to the 2007 elect. "she's been do the job for five year and eight month and, apart from nye bevan himself, (architect of the nh), i don't think anybodi ha ever done the job for so long." mr morgan said he had onli told ms hutt of the reshuffl on mondai morn, and said the nh in wale wa dr gibbon' "babi" now. in respons to dr gibbon' comment, ieuan wyn jone, leader of the plaid cymru group in the assembl, said: "it is appar that thi reshuffl by the first minist wa just chang the deckchair on a sink titan." kisrti william, for the lib dem, ad: "if the underli polici is go to continu, then chang the minist will serv no purpos, other than to deflect flak from labour's mp," she said. meanwhil ms hutt said she hope "that the peopl of wale would benefit from my invest of the past five year and eight month" ask about wait list, she said that wait time and list were "onli 10% of the health agenda" and that the welsh assembl govern had "turn the corner" on the issu.
