ukip candid suspend

euroscept parti ukip have suspend a candid for allegedli suggest the crimin insan should be kill.

john houston, 54, wa due to stand in the east kilbrid seat in lanarkshir at the next elect. but he wa suspend after hi report view, includ the return of the british empir, were sent to two scottish newspap. ukip spokesman mark croucher said those who select mr houston knew noth of hi view. the episod come at a difficult time for ukip, soon after the high-profil departur of mep robert kilroi-silk. mr houston is alleg to have said that the organ of the crimin insan should be "made avail to law-abid member of the commun" and propos the legalis of drug and the sex trade. the document reportedli said: "we're look for the resurrect of the british empir. "the problem for the human race - environment and other - can onli be dealt with on a global scale, and that call for a radic allianc of the english-speak nation, which thei ar uniqu abl to do." mr croucher said the main issu would be that mr houston's report view had been present as ukip polici, which thei were not. he said thei might have been submiss to a committe work on the parti's manifesto, but would not have been match to mr houston when he wa stand to becom a candid. he told bbc new: "he appear to have said these thing. we have suspend him as a member and as a candid. "by all account none of thi wa mention at hi select meet. "it is simpli a distract from the task in hand, the eu constitut, not individu idioci." mr houston wa quot in the herald newspap sai: "i feel ukip have over-react and overshot the runwai."

peter nielson, who is ukip scotland chairman, said he had suspend mr houston on fridai night. "he will remain suspend while the matter is be investig and then we will decid if and what further action will be taken." he said that ani evid would be look into and mr houston mai be interview by the parti. he ad: "i can't comment too much at the moment, i have on version from him but i haven't seen the paper yet."
