end bush 'denial' blair tell eu

toni blair is urg european leader to wake up from their "state of denial" over presid bush's re-elect.

"america ha spoken. the rest of the world should listen," the prime minist said in an interview with the time newspap, publish on fridai. mr blair is at a summit in brussel, where iraq and european justic and immigr plan ar on the agenda. french presid jacqu chirac react to hi warn by sai europ instead need to reinforc it own uniti. mr blair ha probabl been closer to presid bush than ani other european leader.

he said some peopl were in "a sort of state of denial" about the us elect result but predict a more "recept mood" would emerg soon. america need to listen to the world too, he said. "the fact is that presid bush is there for four year. he is there becaus the american peopl have chosen him," he argu. he also made clear he intend to take serious what he perceiv as hi role in bring the two contin togeth.

britain wa "uniqu place" to make out the common ground becaus of it strong allianc with the us, he suggest. he admit he had gone to bed at 2230gmt, well befor the american poll close, think mr kerri might have won. he woke up at 0530gmt to discov mr bush had won but declin to sai if he wa pleas with the eventu result. hi word about presid bush met a cool recept from jacqu chirac. the french presid told report: "europ todai ha more than ever the need, the necess, to reinforc itself and it dynam and uniti. "that is the goal of the constitut in a world that is more multi-polar than ever."

mr chirac will miss an address to the summit from iraqi interim leader iyad allawi, who thi week criticis nation which took a "spectat" role to iraq's reconstruct. mr chirac deni there wa ani snub - he is go to a memori servic for the unit arab emir' late leader and sai he would be happi to meet mr allawi. he also sign a communiqu&#233; stress the eu's commit to secur a stabl and unifi iraq. the eu also confirm a new $21m aid packag. the communiqu&#233; congratul presid bush on hi victori and stress the import of good transatlant relat. the summit is also expect to agre chang to streamlin european asylum and immigr decis. mr blair recent said the uk would onli particip in eu-wide measur where it wa in uk interest but the tori sai he is surrend a kei veto. the meet will also assess progress on the econom reform plan agre in lisbon in 2000 to make europ more competit.
