brown to outlin presid goal

next year will be "make or break" for develop in poorer countri gordon brown will sai as he set out uk goal for it eu and g8 presid.

the chancellor is due to outlin a seri of kei target the govern will be judg on in 2005. thei will includ doubl aid from donor countri and elimin debt ow by the poorest nation. mr brown also want other g8 nation to match hi target for oversea aid - spend 0.7% of nation incom.

he also want the richer countri to do more to help the develop of vaccin for aid and malaria. the chancellor is travel to america next week as part of hi persuas drive over the issu. he told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "we need more resourc alli to progress on trade and progress on debt relief if we ar go to make an impact on the problem of ill health, of illiteraci, of poverti, particularli in africa but right through the develop countri."

hi propos were effect a new "marshal plan" for the world, includ an intern financ facil, which would issu bond in an attempt to doubl global aid cash to $100bn a year. agreement in the doha develop talk could also give develop nation the trade abil thei need, he argu. the european union's common agricultur polici had caus aggrav trade problem, he said, but there wa now an agreement to end export subsidi.

mr brown said much had been achiev on issu such as debt relief in the last seven year. but with 30,000 children were dy unnecessarili everi dai more wa need, includ 100% debt relief multilater. "that is why next year is a test," he said. "if after five year of make promis the world is not prepar to honour them, then peopl will be justifi in sai thei promis but thei did not produc result." the cathol aid agenc cafod will host mr brown's speech on wednesdai.

cafod want britain to us it influenc to pressur countri like the us to make firm commit to tackl global poverti. mr brown said america too need to take more action but defend presid georg bush for guarante resourc to countri which introduc reform to tackl corrupt. oxfam's pai the price report thi week said 45 million children will die needlessli befor 2015 and aid budget ar half their 1960 level. the chariti's director, barbara stock, said: "2005 offer the chanc for an histor breakthrough, but unless world leader act now the year will end in shame failur." the report said the g8 of top industrialis nation had agre in 1970 to spend 0.7% of their incom on aid.

but 34 year later none of the organis member had reach thi target and mani had not yet set a timet. mr blair, who ha describ africa as a "scar" on the world's conscienc, ha alreadi said tackl world poverti would be on hi g8 prioriti along with climat chang and the aid epidem. but band aid founder bob geldof in juli said he wa sick of hear "guff" about scar on the world. it wa pathet that britain wa the 4th richest countri in the world but onli the 11th most gener aid donor, he ad. conserv shadow intern develop secretari alan duncan accus mr brown of miss hi target on provid anti-retrovir drug treatment to three million african by 2005. instead, onli 500,000 peopl would benefit, he said. "there's no point in him demand prais and adul for set a whole new raft of target when he ha so woefulli fail to meet the on he alreadi ha," ad mr duncan.
