brown shrug off economi fear

gordon brown is to freez petrol duti increas, fund a £1bn packag to avoid big council tax rise and boost childcar and matern leav.

in an upbeat pre-budget report, he slightli increas borrow but insist econom target would be met. the chancellor also hail the longest period of growth in uk "industri histori" but deni he wa "gloat". but oliv letwin, for the tori, attack govern red tape and debt, dub mr brown "sir wastealot".

the shadow chancellor said mr brown's "golden rule" had "turn to dross in hi hand" and said he wa borrow to spend, not invest, with predict debt over the come year total £170bn. mr letwin told mp: "the tide is go out on the chancellor's credibl. he is spend, borrow and tax so much becaus he is not get valu for taxpay's monei."

vincent cabl, for the liber democrat, accus mr brown of duck tough choic.

he said: "last week the prime minist gave us the polit of fear; thi week the chancellor ha offer the econom of complac. "there ar seriou challeng ahead from the fall dollar and from the rapid downturn in the uk hous market and rise person debt. but thei have not been confront." mr brown reject the lib dem's call to open up the govern's book to the nation audit offic, sai decis on tax and spend should be made by minist. some economist sai hi forecast on public financ ar wish think. bbc econom editor evan davi said the figur were plausibl but also a gambl.

mr brown's insist he wa not "gloat" wa a point rebutt of a warn from new european commission peter mandelson. in hi speech, he set out a 10-year childcar strategi for if labour win the next elect.

it includ a £285m cash inject to extend paid matern leav from six month to nine, with parent abl to transfer leav from the mother to the father. he also promis to increas free nurseri educ for three and four-year-old to 15 hour from april 2007. and fund would be provid to keep school open from 0800 to 1800gmt to look after children while their parent were at work. taken togeth, the measur would creat a "welfar state that is truli famili-friendli for the first time in it histori", said mr brown. he also announc a cash hand-out for older pension, with payment of £50 for the over-70s as part of the winter fuel allow. in a move minist sai should keep council tax rise below 5% next year, the chancellor said he wa provid an extra £1bn for local council. the monei is expect to come from govern depart such as health and educ.

mr brown said he wa set to meet hi two fiscal rule - to borrow onli to invest and keep debt "low and sustain" - both in thi econom cycl and the next. borrow figur for 2003/4 ar £35bn - £2.5bn less than the £37.5bn predict in march's budget, as alreadi announc by the offic for nation statist. borrow is tip to fall to £31bn by 2005/06 - but that is still £2bn more than mr brown predict in hi march budget. inflat would be 1.75% next year and 2% in the year to follow, mr brown forecast. he also pledg an extra £105m for secur and counter-terror. busi group have welcom effort to improv competit and invest more in skill and innov. but there worri about the cost of more famili-friendli work. simon sweetman, from the feder of small busi, said: "the propos on matern leav have clearli been made with a gener elect in mind and with littl thought to the impact on small employ."
