blair told to doubl oversea aid

toni blair is be urg to us all hi negoti power to end poor countri' debt and doubl aid.

some 45 million children will die needlessli befor 2015 and aid budget ar half their 1960 level, oxfam sai in a report, pai the price. the call come as the prime minist prepar to assum the presid of the g8 of top industrialis nation. "as rich countri get richer, thei're give less and less. thi scandal must stop," oxfam's barbara stock said.

"the world's poorest children ar pai for rich countri' polici in aid and debt with their live. "2005 offer the chanc for an histor breakthrough, but unless world leader act now the year will end in shame failur," the chariti's director ad. the report said: "for rich countri, provid aid to help to end global poverti is an oblig and a matter of justic, not an act of chariti." it also point out that in 1970 the g8 of top industrialis nation agre to spend 0.7% of their incom on aid. but 34 year later none of the organis member have reach thi target and mani have not yet set a timet, the report sai.

it argu that the price of not invest in poor countri' sustain develop will be felt across the world. the report said: "global poverti threaten our share prosper and secur. "environment crise and natur disast, diseas and drug traffick know no nation border. poverti heighten the likelihood of conflict and unrest. "new threat to the peac and secur of rich nation aris from poverti and gross inequ. "crimin and terrorist network ar more like to oper where state institut ar weak."

both the prime minist and chancellor gordon brown have call for urgent action to fight world poverti. mr blair, who ha describ africa as a "scar" on the world's conscienc, ha alreadi said tackl world poverti would be on hi g8 prioriti along with climat chang and the aid epidem. mr brown ha also pledg to write off the debt ow to britain by the world's poor nation. a spokeswoman for the depart for intern develop said: "the govern had made a clear commit to reach 0.7% of gross nation incom for oversea develop aid by 2013. "if britain's propos for an intern financ facil were adopt, the object of 0.7% could be achiev earlier, by 2008-09. "these addit resourc will be us to increas uk bilater aid to africa to at least £1.25bn a year by 2008 and spend at least £1.5bn on hiv/aid relat work over the next three year."
