ban on hunt come into forc

fox hunt with dog is now illeg in england and wale after a ban on the activ came into forc overnight.

the law face a stiff test thi weekend, with the countrysid allianc sai mani hunt will be out in forc. chief polic offic spokesman nigel yeo said he expect most peopl would obei the law - by drag hunt or chase fox then shoot them. he said polic would challeng the "on of two isol hunt" which ar threaten to break the law.

but simon hart of the countrysid allianc ha question how polic will ensur there ar no violat. "the definit of legal and illeg hunt ar so blur that the polic ar be ask to make imposs judgement. "you can hunt a rat, but not a mous, a rabbit but not a hare, an artifici scent, but not a real on," he said.

the attornei gener, lord goldsmith, ha so far issu no instruct to polic on how thei should deal with hunter who violat the law. he said he will consult the director of public prosecut and the polic "in the near futur" to decid what measur to take with regard to hunt prosecut. he ha reject a "blanket polici" of not enforc the ban until the hous of lord ha consid it legal. john cooper, a barrist and chairman of the leagu against cruel sport, said the anti-hunt lobbi expect the author to prosecut wherev there is clear evid of illeg hunt practic. he said polic had "acknowledg their duti to investig alleg of hunt offenc".

the beaufort hunt had on pack out on thursdai and ha promis a hunt thi weekend. under the new law hunter have a number of legal option avail to them.

as well as be abl to mount a hunt for an artifici scent, it will still be legal for the hunt to "flush out" fox, as long as thei shoot their quarri rather than set the hound on them. "we ar not go awai. we will keep these hound go, we will keep thi commun go and in the end we will come back and hunt when hunt is legal again," hunt master, captain ian farquhar, said. but toni bank, labour mp for west ham, said the issu would soon disappear, and that "peopl in a few year time will be wonder what it wa all about". he said had the govern not prevar sinc 1997 in introduc the ban, hunt with dog would have pass into histori like other former countri pursuit such as otter hunt and badger bait. "let the elect decid thi becaus the conserv have made clear that if thei get elect into govern thei will restor hunt," he said.
