blair sai uk tsunami aid to soar

toni blair ha predict the british govern will eventu give "hundr of million" of pound in aid to countri hit by the tsunami.

the prime minist wa speak publicli for the first time sinc return from hi holidai in egypt. mr blair insist he had been "intim involv" in "all decis at all time" despit be abroad. he wa speak befor the uk join a three-minut silenc at noon across the eu for the estim 150,000 dead.

the foreign offic sai 41 briton ar now confirm to have di in the tsunami which struck south asia on box dai, with 158 other miss. ask about critic that he did not cut short hi holidai, mr blair told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "i don't think thi is a situat in which the british peopl need me to articul what thei feel.

"i think thei feel - as we all do - shock, horror, and absolut solidar with those peopl who have lost their live." the import thing wa action and not word, he said, ad that of the £50m given by the govern so far onli "six or seven million" had been spent. it would becom easier in the come week to assess just how much monei would have to be put in. "my estim is we will need to spend from govern sever hundr million pound. so we will far and awai more than match the generos of the british peopl," he said. ask whether he had not return to work immedi becaus he wa under doctor order to rest, mr blair said there wa also a stori he had been awai for plastic surgeri. "as you can see unfortun i am still look the same as i alwai did," he joke.

the prime minist took person charg of the uk's respons on tuesdai, chair a meet of the emerg committe of minist that ha conven daili sinc box dai. he also spoke on the telephon to us presid georg bush, and the presid of sri lanka and indonesia. chancellor gordon brown earlier back a plan to freez the foreign debt of all the affect nation.

mr brown, who wa not at the down street meet, sai he ha been in "intens talk" with other g8 financ minist. germani propos a freez last week and canada ha begun it own moratorium. the chancellor said the plan would initi save the most affect countri about $3bn (£1.58bn) in repay. tori leader michael howard also back the propos but said minist had been "plai catch-up" with public donat.

foreign secretari jack straw is to visit thailand and indonesia thi week. dure hi trip, mr straw will repres the g8 at the intern confer call in jakarta, indonesia on thursdai. on fridai, he will visit the thai beach resort of phuket, where british famili ar still search for rel.

intern develop secretari hilari benn will also visit aceh in indonesia, as well as sri lanka. the british public ha now pledg £76m in aid with emerg suppli from the british govern start to arriv in the region on three raf flight in a joint oper with scandinavian countri. two ship - the royal fleet auxiliari ship dilig and frigat hm chatham - have arriv in the disast area. a second royal fleet auxiliari vessel, the bayleaf, is also be sent. uk chariti have also begun charter plane to deliv aid.


 - a bbc new special: asia rememb, includ the three-minut silenc, will be shown on bbc on and bbc new 24 from 1130 to 1215 gmt on wednesdai.
