straw attack on china arm

move to lift the european union's ban on arm export to china have been condemn by human right group and the conserv.

the 15 year embargo wa impos in the aftermath of china's crackdown on protest in tiananmen squar in 1989. uk foreign secretari jack straw, who will hold talk in beij on thursdai, said an eu arm code wa more effect than the current ban. but human right watch sai the eu is put commerc abov abus concern.

in decemb, the eu pledg to work toward lift the ban but said it wa not readi to do so yet. germani and franc have repeatedli call for the embargo to be lift. britain ha been more cautiou but mr straw last week said he also want it to end, despit us object.

he expect it to be lift over the next six month, a predict which ha alarm critic. brad adam, from human right watch, said: "thi is a huge polit signal from europ that thei ar will to forget about tiananmen squar. "there ar still thousand of peopl who ar unaccount for."

mr straw said it wa wrong to put china under the same embargo as countri such as zimbabw and burma. the scope of the embargo wa veri narrow and did not have ani forc of law behind it, he told bbc radio 4's world at on. in the uk, more export licenc were refus under the exist european union arm code than under the embargo, he said. and onli two of the licenc deni under the embargo would have been grant under the code. "the code of conduct is much more effect, it's a more power tool of and we intend to strengthen it as a pre-condit of lift the embargo with china," he said.

mr straw deni the decis would suggest to china that tiananmen squar had been forgotten. the level of human right wa a kei criteria under the eu arm export code, he said. human right group sai the code of conduct is not legal bind - but mr straw said it would be given legal forc by the law of mani eu countri. conserv shadow foreign secretari michael ancram said the move would be "profoundli wrong". the decis could undermin nato as it sever damag relat with the us, which is oppos to end the ban.

mr ancram argu: "what the british govern is do is give in to french and german pressur, especi the french, who see vast contract avail to them if the embargo is lift... "it give the wrong signal to china, who ar simpli not prepar to accept that what happen at tiananmen squar wa wrong." mr straw's china trip is part of regular high-level meet with beij minist. he will meet chines counterpart minist li zhaox to discuss develop relat between their two countri, hong kong and china's part in the talk on north korea.
