defiant hunt put ban to the test

thousand of hunt support have been out on the first dai of hunt in england and wale after the ban on hunt with dog came into forc.

the countrysid allianc call on hunt support to meet as normal, but vow to stai within the law. although hunt with dog is now a crimin offenc, exercis hound, chase a scent trail and flush out fox to be shot ar still legal. on anti-hunt protest wa taken to hospit after a violent clash in kent.

the man suffer facial injuri after an incid involv a group of men at the end of the east kent hunt, near ashford. in wiltshir, polic arrest four men under the new law suspect of hunt with dog. the group, from south wale and ireland, have been releas on bail but polic sai thei mai face prosecut under new poach law.

it is believ more than 270 hunt went out on saturdai, just on dai after the ban came in.

thei were greet by big crowd in mani area of the countri, with actor jeremi iron and former minist kate hoei among the support. anti-hunt group - such as the leagu against cruel sport - deploi 100 monitor at hunt to check for illeg activ.

mike hobdai, from the leagu, said video evid of the law be broken wa to be pass onto polic. "our evid suggest that most hunt did oper within the law, mani meet and promptli go home and other peacefulli exercis their hound or drag hunt. "howev, we have receiv report of what we believ is clearli illeg activ by a number of hunt across britain." bbc correspond simon hall at postbridg on dartmoor in the west countri said 2,000 peopl had turn out to welcom the hunt.

and the bbc's sarah mukherje, with the beaufort hunt in badminton, gloucestershir said sever hundr peopl had gather on foot to see the hunt, with 150 on horseback. tom heap, bbc rural affair correspond, said it appear that hunstman had, for now, been stick to the new rule. and while there wa big turnout in support of the hunt on saturdai, he said it remain to be seen if the level of back can be maintain.

befor ride out with the hunt, former minist kate hoei told crowd: "we will prevail and thi law will have to be overturn." judith moritz, in melton mowbrai, said anti-hunt activist were out to monitor the four hunt oper in that part of leicestershir, but were outnumb by larg crowd of follow. the countrysid allianc said the meet would show the new law wa "imposs difficult to determin" and open to differ interpret.

chief execut simon hart said: "there ha been hunt in england for 700 year. thi [ban] mai take two or three year, perhap two or three month, to unpick. "it will be noth more than a temporari break in normal servic, as broadcast sai." conserv famili spokeswoman theresa mai said if the parti wa in govern again it would make sure the law wa repeal. suffolk chief constabl alastair mcwhirter, the associ of chief polic offic' spokesman on rural polic, told the bbc the law would be enforc, although the polic would not break up hunt. the attornei gener lord goldsmith ha so far not issu ani instruct to polic on how thei should deal with ani hunter who do violat the law. he said he would consult the director of public prosecut and the polic "in the near futur" to decid what measur to take on hunt prosecut.
