eu fraud clampdown urg

eu member state ar fail to report fraud and irregular in eu fund on a consist basi, the uk's public spend watchdog ha said.

the nation audit offic said although the latest figur show report fraud wa fall, the eu still had no common definit of fraud. it also express concern that, for the 10th year, the european court of auditor had qualifi the eu account. the nao urg the govern to push for improv in report fraud. it said member state need to be more account on how monei wa spent. the report said: "member state still do not report fraud and other irregular to the european anti-fraud offic on a consist basi.

"as the court ha now qualifi it opinion on the commun account for a decad, it is essenti for all the author involv to contribut to the strengthen of the audit of eu revenu and expenditur and improv account for the financi manag and us of eu resourc." it said there were 922 case of report fraud or irregular in eu fund in the uk in 2003, worth £38.5m (52m euro), up from 831 case worth £35.7m in 2002. at the same time, report fraud throughout the eu drop from 10,276 case worth £808m to 8,177 case worth £644m. edward leigh, chairman of the common public account committe, said britain had to set an exampl when it assum the eu presid.

"ani fraud in other member state is potenti fraud against the uk taxpay, given that we ar the second largest net contributor to the commun," he said. "depart respons for administ eu fund need to make sure that thei're do everyth possibl to weed out improp spend. "the govern must take the opportun afford by the uk presid of the eu to press the commiss and other member state to take an equal robust stanc against fraud and irregular, and rais overal standard of financi manag." a spokesman for the european anti-fraud offic said the organis agre with the nao's assess of fraud report. "the qualiti of report doe differ from member state to member state, and there is room for improv," spokesman jorg wojahn said. he ad that there is gener good co-oper with member state and the anti-fraud offic on specif case of fraud, with the statist studi by nao provid a "good overview for plan strateg wai of detect fraud".
