howard deni split over id card

michael howard ha deni hi shadow cabinet wa split over it decis to back controversi labour plan to introduc id card.

the tori leader said hi front bench team had reach a "collect view" after hold a "good discuss", but admit it wa "not an easi issu". he had decid to support the plan as the polic said thei would help fight terror, crime and illeg immigr. the lib dem have pledg to oppos the bill when it is debat next mondai.

tori sourc sai senior parti figur had argu vocifer against the id card scheme. among those report to have seriou reserv over the strategi were senior shadow cabinet member david davi, oliv letwin and tim yeo. but mr howard deni mr yeo, hi transport and environ spokesman, said the plan "stink". he also said he wa confid shadow home secretari mr davi would "set out the posit veri clearli" when he stand up to debat the matter next week. mr howard said the polic had said id card could "help them foil a terror bomb plot in which peopl could lose their live". he ad: "when the polic sai that you have to take them serious".

he acknowledg there were "good libertarian argument" against the card, but said the shadow cabinet had weigh up all the "conflict interest" befor reach it decis. "i don't pretend that it is an easi decis but at the end of the dai a decis ha to be taken." he also deni he wa afraid of look "soft" on the issu, compar to labour. the conserv announc their support for the govern plan on mondai even.

sourc within the parti told the bbc mr howard had alwai been in favour of id card, and tri to introduc them when he wa home secretari. but the tori insist thei would hold minist to account over the precis purpos of the scheme.

thei said thei would also press labour over whether object could be met and whether the home offic would be abl to deliv them. and thei pledg to assess the cost effect of id card and whether peopl's privaci would be properli protect. "it is import to rememb that thi bill will take a decad to come into full effect," a spokesman said. lib dem home affair spokesman mark oaten ha brand the id scheme a wast of monei and "deepli flaw". he said: "thi ha all the sign of michael howard overrul colleagu' concern over id card."

the chairman of the bar council, gui mansfield qc warn there wa a real risk that peopl on the "margin of societi" would be driven into the hand of extremist. "what is go to happen to young asian men when there ha been a bomb gone off somewher? thei ar go to be stop. if thei haven't [id card] thei ar go to be detain." tori ex-minist dougla hogg said he oppos the plan for id card brand them a "regress" step which would intrud into the live of ordinari citizen without ani counterbalanc benefit. he predict ultim carri the card would becom compulsori and that would lead to larg number of britain's ethnic minor be stop by polic.
