eu referendum question unveil

the question to be ask in the referendum on the eu constitut ha been unveil by the govern.

it will be: "should the unit kingdom approv the treati establish a constitut for the european union?" the constitut will be incorpor into uk law if there is a ye vote in the referendum, expect in 2006. critic sai the constitut is a further step toward a feder europ, but advoc sai it ensur effect oper of the enlarg 25-state eu. "if we reject thi treati, britain will be isol and weak in europ," said foreign secretari jack straw, who along with the rest of the cabinet, will back a "ye" vote.

patriot by definit want the uk to be prosper at home and strong and influenti abroad, mr straw said. "our role as a lead member of the eu is a crucial part of secur that."

conserv shadow foreign secretari michael ancram said the referendum question "seem straightforward". but he accus the govern of try to confus the issu by put the eu referendum question in the same bill as the ratif of the constitut, when thei should be treat as "two separ issu". despit thi "underhand trick," the referendum bill stood "no chanc of becom law befor the elect," he ad. "thi is toni blair's cheap gestur to the pro-constitut lobbi while he run scare of a debat on europ he know he cannot win." neil o'brien, director of anti-constitut group vote no, said: "the realiti is that the govern doesn't want to discuss the eu constitut ahead of the elect becaus thei know it is extrem unpopular with voter and with busi."

the uk independ parti said: "if the govern believ that a no vote would mean that we should leav the european union, thei should just ask us if we want to leav the eu. then we can be out of it and better off much sooner."

liber democrat leader charl kennedi, who back the constitut, said he expect the referendum would come in the first half of next year. he told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "the sooner we get on with thi, the better." he said the question sound "veri neutral" and "balanc," ad it would enabl the argument "to be enjoin fairli and squar on both side". green mep carolin luca welcom toni blair's "courag in keep hi word" on hold a referendum. but she ad: "thi treati is a flaw document that will make the eu less account, less sustain, and less just."

mr blair sign the constitut at a ceremoni in rome in novemb, but had alreadi made it clear the issu would be put to voter in a referendum. that promis came after sustain pressur from opposit parti. jack straw, who argu the constitut reflect a "british vision for europ" and give "nation govern a stronger grip", ha said the referendum could be held in spring 2006. but in an interview with the financi time, mr blair refus to be pin down to that date, sai britain would hold a poll "some time in 2006 but when, i don't know". the paper said the prime minist "claim ignor" of when other countri were plan to hold their referendum.
