malik reject all-black mp list

a call for ethnic minor shortlist to boost the number of black and asian mp ha been reject by on of labour's most senior asian.

shahid malik, who is on labour's rule nec, accept peopl's frustrat but said there should be target not list to boost represent of minor. just 13 of britain's 659 mp ar from ethnic minor group, he ad. commiss for racial equal chief trevor phillip argu on sundai the time had come for such shortlist. that came after it emerg that on of britain's most ethnic divers constitu, west ham, wa to get a women-onli shortlist for the next elect follow an nec rule.

mr phillip said chang to the race relat legisl might allow polit parti to reserv seat for under-repres group. for exampl in west ham, thi might allow onli women and minor to seek to be candid. "if we get to the other side of the gener elect and find that minor ar not repres, we have to sai that after 20 or 30 year of talk about thi, we cannot go on the same wai," he said. he ad: "it would be terribl disappoint if in the least white constitu [west ham] in the whole of europ we didn't have a minor candid." appear on bbc radio 4's todai programm, mr malik, who is himself run for the seat of dewsburi, acknowledg that so far women-onli shortlist had fail to deliv a boost in the number of ethnic minor candid.

but he argu: "i do think that there current thing that parti can do and which thei aren't do... for exampl set target to ensur that exist democrat structur ar more reflect." labour mp dian abbot, who back mr phillip' propos of shortlist, said she had been elect along with three other ethnic minor mp - keith vaz, paul boateng and berni grant - in 1987 but it took anoth 10 year befor anoth black woman wa abl to win a seat. that wa a rate of progress ms abbott describ as "pain". "i am a littl older than shahid and serv on the nation execut committe in the 1990s - i wa the first black person on the nec ... cross our finger and hope we ar go to get more black and asian mp hasn't work," she said. "the shortlist strategi work for women and i believ that it can be made to work for black and asian peopl." on tuesdai labour chairman ian mccartnei said hi parti wa "ambiti" to improv black and asian represent. "we haven't rule out all-black shortlist and welcom a debat in the parti about thi," he said.
