'nuclear dumpsit' plan attack

plan to allow foreign nuclear wast to be perman store in the uk have been brand "deepli irrespons" by the liber democrat.

the govern ha confirm intermedi level wast (ilw) that wa to have been ship back to it home countri will now be store in the uk. the cash rais will go toward the uk's nuclear clean-up programm. but lib dem norman baker accus minist of turn britain into a "nuclear dumpsit".

under current contract, british nuclear fuel should return all but low level wast, but none ha ever been sent back. in futur, onli highli-radioact wast will be sent back to it countri of origin, normal germani or japan, under arm guard. intermedi wast from countri such as japan, germani, spain, itali, switzerland and sweden will be store perman in the uk. at the moment, thi wast is store at sellafield, in cumbria, in the form of glass brick, untreat liquid wast or solid materi in drum. in a statement, the depart of trade and industri said the new polici meant there would be a "sixfold reduct in the number of wast shipment to oversea countri". and it said highli-radioact wast would be return to it home countri sooner, ensur there would be no overal increas in radioact.

trade secretari patricia hewitt said the new arrang, reveal in a common written statement, would rais up to £680m for britain's nuclear clean-up programm, under the new nuclear decommiss agenc. but the move ha been criticis by environment group and the liber democrat. mr baker, the lib dem environ spokesman, said: "i have been warn for month that thi would happen and rais it with govern sever time. but now our worst fear have been confirm. "onc again britain's environment and health need ar be ignor in polici driven by the treasuri and dti. "thi is a terribl attempt to offload some of the £48bn cost of clean up nuclear site. "the energi act wa suppos to help britain clean up, but in order to pai for it we ar becom a nuclear dumpsit. "the nuclear industri is an econom, social and environment millston that hang around britain's neck."
