labour accus of broken pledg

labour ha alreadi broken it pre-elect promis on immigr befor the ink ha dri on it new pledg card, the tori have claim.

home secretari charl clark ha been quot as tell labour member he want more migrant to come to the uk. tori co-chairman liam fox said the comment were at odd with toni blair's predict of a net cut in immigr. but mr clark accus him of try to score "cheap polit point" by muddl immigr with asylum.

london's even standard quot mr clark tell labour activist at a question and answer session in gateshead that he want britain to offer refug for those flee tyranni. "that's not onli a moral duti and a legal duti, but someth which is part of the essenc of thi countri," he said.

"we want more migrat, more peopl come to studi and to work. "we want more peopl come to look for refug." mr blair's wa ask last wednesdai if the govern's new immigr plan, includ a point system for econom migrant, would reduc net migrat. the prime minist told mp: "the abus will be weed out, and as a result of the end of chain migrat [where famili have an automat right to settl], the number will probabl fall."

on mondai, dr fox told report: "the prime minist ha broken hi word so mani time in the past but now hi promis do not even last a week. "the labour parti elect pledg, even when thei ar so incred vagu, do not even last four dai."

the tori want quota for econom migrant and refuge and on tuesdai will outlin more detail of their plan for health check on migrant. mr clark dismiss the latest tori attack. "thi is simpli a scurril attempt by the tori to score cheap polit point," he said. "the tori ar purpos mix togeth two separ issu of immigr and asylum."

mr clark said he had made clear the uk would welcom genuin econom migrant for kei job on a strict point base system. and onli asylum seeker genuin flee death or persecut would be admit. "under our plan we expect unfound applic to continu to fall," he ad. earlier, dr fox accus mr blair and other cabinet minist of tell li about tori polici and then attack the li. he told bbc radio: "if you ar will to lie about the reason for go to war, i guess you ar go to lie about anyth at all." the latest pre-elect spat come after mr blair told labour member the tori offer a "hard right agenda" which would take britain backward. lib dem leader charl kennedi acceler lib dem elect prepar thi week as he visit manchest, liverpool, leicest, somerset, basingstok, shrewsburi, dorset and torbai.
