labour trio 'had vote-rig factori'

three labour councillor in birmingham were caught oper a "vote-rig factori", an elect court ha heard.

polic found the trio handl unseal postal ballot in a desert warehous in the citi dure a late-night raid in june 2004, the hear wa told. the vote were later count toward that month's english local elect. the men, elect to the aston ward, deni collect vote fraudul. the judg presid ha indic the whole postal vote system is under scrutini. deputi high court judg richard mawrei, qc told the hear at the birmingham and midland institut the case could have potenti seriou consequ for ani forthcom gener elect.

the special elect court, the first in live memori to hear alleg of vote-rig, open in birmingham last month. the case against muhammad afzal, moham islam and moham kazi is be brought by local liber democrat support. thei claim the trio benefit from the widespread misus of postal vote dure the 10 june elect. ravi sukul, counsel for the petition, accus the three men of be "deepli involv" in illeg practic. wit saw them carri sever bag from their campaign offic, which the men drove to a warehous on an industri estat off birch road east, the court wa told.

the polic were alert and call to the premis. mr sukul said: "when (the offic) arriv there, in the middl of the night, thei saw a larg room with a 10ft long tabl and six asian men present. "hundr of document and unseal envelop were scatter all over the tabl." the polic offic left the warehous, but were later order back to seiz the document. "when the offic left, all the envelop and paper were scatter," mr sukul said.

"(when thei went) back to make the seizur, everi on of these 275 yellow ballot paper were place neatli in envelop a and seal. the hous wa in order." interrupt mr sukul in hi open, mr mawrei said: "what you ar sai is, these men were oper a vote-forg factori on an industri estat." the court heard how document were taken by polic to the elect offic next morn, where thei were mix in with other ballot. the case against the men follow a hear into postal fraud alleg made against three other birmingham councillor in the bordeslei green ward, claim which ar deni. mr mawrei is due to deliv a judgment in their case onc the aston petit ha been heard. mr afzal, mr islam and mr kazi deni conspir to commit elect fraud to deceiv the return offic. the case continu.
