blair return from peac mission

prime minist toni blair ha arriv back from hi diplomat mission to the middl east to try to resurrect the peac process.

mr blair held talk with hi isra counterpart, ariel sharon, and the palestinian leader, mahmoud abba. he confirm that a renew drive to reform the palestinian author and address secur issu would come at a london confer in march. mr blair also made a surpris trip to iraq thi week. the isra describ the meet as import but said thei would not need to attend. mr blair briefli visit the tomb of yasser arafat in ramallah - the first world leader to do so. he nod briefli toward the tomb, rather than lai a wreath, in what palestinian offici said wa a compromis gestur agre at the last minut.

the bbc's paul reynold sai the london confer will be a limit measur to shore up the leadership of mahmoud abba, also known as abu mazen, who is expect to win the palestinian presidenti elect on 9 januari. at a new confer follow talk with mr blair, mr abba said the british prime minist wa "in a uniqu posit to help us progress in our peac pursuit". he ad: "your endeavour to hold a confer in london is anoth exampl of your deep commit to thi purpos." in an interview with the bbc's polit editor andrew marr, mr blair said get progress between isra and palestinian would be "tough, but at least we have got the first step". mr blair acknowledg some peopl believ he wa too close to the isra, but said the isra were entitl to expect palestinian to give up terror. he argu that mr sharon wa commit to the internation-agre roadmap peac plan and said hi bid to disengag from gaza had to be part of the peac process, not the end of it. earlier, mr sharon again said he had not seen "the slightest step" the palestinian were work to end terror attack - though he acknowledg palestinian leader were in the middl of an elect campaign that could be hamper their effort. befor visit israel, mr blair made a surpris visit to iraq, where he met leader in baghdad dure hi first trip to the citi. he wa brief on prepar for the nation poll, which is schedul for next month but is threaten by a deadli campaign of insurg violenc. he also flew to basra in southern iraq where british forc ar station.
