guantanamo four question

the four briton freed from us custodi in guantanamo bai ar expect to be allow a visit by on rel.

moazzam begg, martin mubanga, feroz abbasi and richard belmar were held for three year, accus of al-qaeda link. mr begg's father, azmat, said he had been told he could see hi son for 20 minut and would sai he wa "a hero". the men ar be held at london's paddington green polic station, where thei ar expect to be question by uk anti-terror offic. but louis christian, the lawyer repres mr abbasi and mr mubanga, said the famili would be reunit with the men awai from the station. befor be driven by polic from birmingham to london, azmat begg said he wa concern for hi son moazzam's mental state and wa look forward to give him a hug. as azmat begg arriv at the london polic station, there appear to be some confus as to the visit arrang. polic have said thei have a duti to investig the men, who were arrest on their return to the uk. but metropolitan polic commission sir john steven said evid obtain by mi5 while the four were in cuba wa "absolut" inadmiss in uk court. in an interview with the independ, sir john said hi offic would have to find other evid befor the suspect could be tri in the uk.

he told the newspap: "if an admiss is made, it is a total differ ball game... it could be us as evid. "the option ar: if there is enough evid thei will be charg. if not thei will be releas as soon as possibl." the men have been allow to meet their lawyer. louis christian said that after be "tortur and abus" at guantanamo bai, the men's arrest wa unfair and inappropri. she told bbc new she remain veri concern about their psycholog state. gareth peirc, lawyer for mr begg, said she wa shock at the condit of the men and appal that the author felt the need to detain them. washington ha claim all four were "enemi combat" who train at camp run by al-qaeda. the pentagon sai thei were freed after the uk govern promis thei would not be a threat to the nation secur of the us or ani of it alli.

the detaine were immedi arrest under section 41 of the terror act 2000 when thei land at raf northolt, west london, on tuesdai. massoud shadjareh, from the muslim safeti forum, said: "what sort of homecom is thi? thei ar innoc peopl." the muslim council of britain urg that the men should receiv counsel and medic help. "we want these men to be return into the arm of their wait famili," said iqbal sacrani, secretari gener of the council.
