minist defend hunt ban law

the law ban hunt with dog in england and wale is enforc and "veri clear", alun michael ha said.

the rural affair minist said it would becom obviou if peopl flout the law, which came into forc on fridai, and pretend thei were not. some 270 hunt met legal on saturdai kill a total of 91 fox - onli four were accident kill by hound. but anti-hunt campaign said there had been widespread intimid of activist monitor hunt. countrysid allianc chairman john jackson said that saturdai had been a "massiv demonstr by the rural commun of support for hunt". peopl had turn out "to show en mass that the hunt act wa a bad law", he said ad that fox and other anim had been kill "legal" as far as he wa awar.

although hunt with dog is now a crimin offenc, exercis hound, chase a scent trail and flush out fox to be shot ar still legal. address claim that the new law wa unenforc, mr michael told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "there ha been a lot of spin about thi by those that support hunt. "the realiti is that the law is veri clear. you can't chase wild mammal with a pack of dog, whether the wild mammal is a fox or a deer. "if peopl do so and pretend thei're not it's go to becom veri clear. you can't hunt accident." mr michael also deni the hunt ban had led to a breakdown of trust between the govern and rural commun. he said most peopl live in the countrysid were more concern with issu like the economi, the health servic and their children's futur than hunt.

but the leagu against cruel sport claim the new act had been broken even though the number of fox kill had fallen. thousand of hunt support turn out at 270 hunt across england and wale on the first dai of the ban, with anti-hunt group send out 100 monitor to check the law wa not be broken. there were onli four arrest - over alleg hunt of hare in wiltshir - although it wa not clear whether thei were made under the hunt act.

thei have been releas on bail but polic sai thei mai face prosecut under new poach law. but penni littl, who monitor the bicest hunt in oxfordshir, said she had wit "gratuit, spite kill of fox". if peopl tri to "run circl around thi law" the onli outcom would be that it wa tighten up, she said. mike hobdai, from the leagu against cruel sport, said video evid of the law be broken would be pass onto polic. he said intimid seem to have been widespread and call on hunt to do more to stop their support intimid anti-hunt activist video hunt. but mr jackson, who had been at the bicest hunt in oxfordshir, deni there wa ani intimid.
