clark to unveil immigr plan

new control on econom migrant and tighter border patrol will be part of govern plan unveil on mondai.

home secretari charl clark want to introduc a point system for econom migrant and increas deport of fail asylum seeker. toni blair ha said peopl ar right to be concern about abus of the system but there is no "magic bullet". the tori sai labour is act too late while the lib dem sai the plan mai not produc an effici system.

the govern's new five-year plan is design to show how labour would reform immigr and asylum control if it win the elect, expect to be held in mai. minist deni thei have been spur into action by tori campaign or becaus the prime minist is worri too littl ha been done.

instead, thei sai the plan ar part of an "evolv" process aim at win public confid. mr clark is expect to announc an end to the automat right to settl for immigr' famili, and the introduct of fingerprint for all visa applic. the prime minist on sundai said immigr would be "toughen up" to ensur onli those immigr with skill the uk realli need will be grant work permit. but he reject the tori' call for a quota on econom migrant, sai no "arbitrari figur" could reflect the uk's need.

mr blair told bbc radio 4's westminst hour: "we should cut the number or increas it depend on the countri's need... "the public ar worri about thi, thei ar worri rightli, becaus there ar abus of the immigr and asylum system." but he defend the uk's current regim, sai all system around the world were subject to abus. tori propos to cap the number of asylum seeker and process all claim abroad would not work, argu mr blair.

he said: "we will not be... pretend there is some simpl easi wai of process britain's asylum seeker in some other countri, becaus no such other countri exist." conserv shadow home secretari david davi said the govern had fail to remov 250,000 fail asylum seeker from the uk and limit on econom migrant had been a "shambl". "what we ar see todai is a rather panicki respons from the govern after eight year of failur," he said. liber democrat home affair spokesman mark oaten said labour wa right to reject the tori' idea of quota on asylum. but he said it wa yet to be seen if mr clark could deliv "a fair and effici asylum system".
