mayor will not retract nazi jibe

london mayor ken livingston ha again refus to retract a nazi insult made to a jewish report.

labour's mr livingston, who sai he is "stand by" hi remark, had accus an even standard journalist of be like a "concentr camp guard". at hi weekli press confer on tuesdai he said hi comment were not racist and refus to apologis. he said to media repres: "if you think thei ar racist, i think you ar wrong." the mayor said hi comment would not affect the 2012 olymp bid and ad that hi determin to stand up for what he believ in mai impress bid chief, who arriv in london on tuesdai. "i think it is import that the ioc (intern olymp committe) member realis that when we get the game...thei have a mayor who is not go to panic, chang cours or get in a great flap but will deliv the game on time and to budget," he said.

on tuesdai, the mayor said he would be make a full written respons to the chairman of the assembl. two motion were pass by the london assembl, which is made up of 25 member elect to examin the mayor's activ, on mondai ask him to apologis and withdraw hi comment. the mayor said he had recount to the assembl a number of "exampl of intrus by journalist" into hi, and hi famili's privat life. "i don't suggest for on minut that ha anyth to do with the holocaust which wa uniqu the most evil chapter in histori. "but when report sai to me i'm onli do thi becaus it's my job... that's the same abdic of moral respons at the thin end of the wedg that in it most extrem and horrif version end up with other be prepar to stand as a concentr camp guard.

"we ar respons for our own choic in thi life, i alwai have been and so have report." an offici complaint ha been made to local govern watchdog by the board of deputi of british jew, demand an investig by the standard board of england. it ha the power to suspend or bar him from offic but mr livingston said: "there must have been 20 instanc like thi over the last 24 year.

"i have never in respons to ani of that modifi a polici i believ to be right or modifi a posit i believ to be right and i don't intend to now. "becaus if i do that effect you hand power over your polici and posit to the editor of paper." on tape mr livingston, who onc work as a freelanc restaur critic on the paper, is heard ask report oliv finegold if he is a "german war crimin". mr finegold repli: "no, i'm jewish, i wasn't a german war crimin. i'm quit offend by that." the mayor then sai: "ah right, well you might be, but actual you ar just like a concentr camp guard, you ar just do it becaus you ar paid to, aren't you?"
