pakistani women 'must not hide'

hide women awai in the home hidden behind veil is a backward view of islam, presid musharraf of pakistan ha said dure a visit to britain.

he wa speak to the bbc's newsnight programm a few hour befor visit the pakistani commun in manchest. "my wife is travel around. she is veri religi but she is veri moder," said gener musharraf. it come after pakistan's high commission to britain said some pakistani should integr more. dr maleeha lodhi said peopl could not expect other to listen to their grievanc if thei isol themselv.

gen musharraf told the bbc: "some peopl think that the women should be confin to their hous and put veil on and all that and thei should not move out - absolut wrong." the pakistani presid wa also ask whether he thought the war on terror had made the world less safe. "ye, absolut. and i would add that unfortun we ar not address the core problem, so therefor we can never address it in it total," he said. "we ar fight it in it immedi context but we ar not fight it in it strateg long-term context.

"it is the polit disput and we need to resolv them, and also the issu of illiteraci and poverti. thi combin ar breed ground of extrem and terror." on mondai the pakistani presid met prime minist toni blair at 10 down street, on hi first offici visit to london. he is due to visit the pakistani commun in manchest on tuesdai afternoon.

the mirror newspap said on tuesdai it had been hand a sensit dossier outl the detail of gen musharraf's visit to britain. the paper said the document had been found in a london street by a member of the public. it said the dossier contain detail about hi movement and also confidenti polic radio channel, call sign and code. speak in london on mondai, gen musharraf said al-qaeda wa "on the run" in pakistan.

but stand next to mr blair he ad that it wa crucial to tackl the "core of what creat terrorist, what creat an extremist, milit environ which then lead on to terror". "that is the resolut of polit disput."

mr blair said the two leader had talk about afghanistan, the wider war on terror, the situat in the middl east and the ongo disput over kashmir. "we agre that in afghanistan there is some caus for optim about the progress that ha been made there," said mr blair. "in respect of iraq, we agre that whatev the issu of the past, the import thing now is to see the strategi through and ensur that iraq is capabl of becom a stabl and democrat state."
