visa row mandarin made sir john

the top civil servant at the centr of the david blunkett visa affair ha been knight in the new year honour.

sir john giev wa home offic perman secretari dure the saga which end with mr blunkett quit. he and other civil servant were criticis for fail to recal how the visa for mr blunkett's ex-lover's nanni came to be fast-track. the outgo head of the troubl child support agenc doug smith also earn an honour in the new year's list. mr smith, 57, whose retir wa announc by work and pension secretari alan smith in novemb, is made a command of the order of bath.

both men were give evid to a common committe on the comput difficulti face the agenc, which left thousand of singl parent without ani mainten payment, when the announc wa made. the knight of sir john, 54, will be receiv with astonish by opposit politician.

the liber democrat said it "beggar belief" he and fellow offici could not rememb how leoncia casalm's applic for indefinit leav to remain went from mr blunkett's offic to the head of the immigr and nation depart. meanwhil, the conserv accus offici of a "collect failur" of memori. but sir alan budd, who led an inquiri into the affair, said he had no reason to believ anyon involv had deliber withheld inform.

down street defend the decis to honour both men, with a spokesperson sai: "you have to look at their whole career." sir john wa made perman secretari in april 2001 follow a civil servic career which date back to 1974. he ha also work in the treasuri and the depart of employ. a depart for work and pension spokeswoman said of mr smith's honour: "the award reflect all that he ha achiev in a civil servic career, princip in the inland revenu, span over 40 year - not just hi role as chief execut of the child support agenc.

"in hi career he ha person led a number of success major chang programm." mr smith is set to stai on at the csa until march. less controversi will be the knighthood for derek wanless and mike tomlinson, who undertook major govern review on health and educ respect. former natwest chief execut mr wanless, 57, ha deliv not on but two major report on the nh. ex-chief inspector of school mr tomlinson, 62, ha recommend replac a-level and gcse with a new diploma system in a shake-up of the exam system.
