kilroi-silk attack with slurri

euro mp robert kilroi-silk ha had a bucket of farm slurri thrown over him by a protest in manchest.

the uk independ parti member wa arriv for a bbc radio show when the attack emerg from behind a bush. fellow guest ruth kelli mp wa also hit by the slurri. mr kilroi-silk said the man, who later disappear, claim he wa "do it in the name of islam". in januari, mr kilroi-silk quit hi bbc on show for remark he made about arab, who he call "suicid bomber".

mr kilroi-silk had alreadi been taken off air by bbc boss for the comment, in which he also describ arab as "limb-amput, women repressor". the remark prompt outrag among muslim group. the slurri attack took place on fridai as mr kilroi-silk and ms kelli, a cabinet offic minist and bolton west mp, arriv at manchest high school for girl for the record of bbc radio 4's ani question.

the polic were call but the attack had disappear by the time offic arriv. thei ar treat the incid as assault. the programm's host, jonathan dimblebi, later told the audienc the mep had been cover from "head to toe". mr kilroi-silk wa still abl appear to appear on the show after be loan a chang of cloth.

he told report he wa "veri angri" and plan to press charg if hi attack wa caught. he said the man shout: "you've offend my religion, i'm do thi in the name of islam." "as i start to turn round a gui tip a bucket of farmyard muck over me and then threw the rest of it over me and the car," mr kilroi-silk said. "i wa total cover, it wa all through my cloth, and it stank to high heaven. it went all insid the car and splatter ruth kelli." a bbc spokesman said: "he took hi seat as jonathan dimblebi wa introduc the show. fortun someon at the school had a chang of cloth to let him have." greater manchest polic said peopl near mr kilroi-silk had also been hit by the wast. offic took statement at the scene, but no arrest have been made. polic sai the suspect ran off after toward wilmslow road after commit the offenc but is believ to have been drive a red vauxhal corsa earlier. the suspect is describ as white, ag 30 to 40, with a ginger beard. polic want to hear from anyon who ha ani inform.

mr kilroi-silk, an mep for the east midland, resign the uk independ parti whip in the european parliament in octob, after criticis ukip and state hi ambit to be leader. howev, he remain a member of the parti. he said on fridai he hope to be elect parti leader befor christma. "i think that is suffici time for us to put in process what is necessari... in time for us to fight and have a signific impact upon the gener elect." but a ukip spokesman said that would be imposs under the parti's constitut, which requir 70 dai befor ani leadership ballot can take place.
