howard unveil elect platform

the conserv would stand up for the "forgotten major", michael howard pledg as he unveil the first part of the tori elect manifesto.

the tori leader argu there wa a mass of peopl whom he sai feel let down by toni blair and who share tori valu. in the foreword to the manifesto, he promis to focu on restor order, try to lower tax and give power back to the peopl. labour sai the document offer onli a return to a "fail tori past". the liber democrat sai the conserv cannot win what thei predict will be a three-parti contest.

campaign activ is acceler ahead of the gener elect, which is wide tip for mai but could be ani time befor june 2006. labour on mondai postpon a launch of elect poster becaus of the asian tsunami disast. mr howard publish the introduct to the tori manifesto. other chapter will follow in come week.

in a speech in northamptonshir, he said the "forgotten major" made up the backbon of britain. thei were peopl who were save for their first home or their retir, work hard and accept their respons. he sai in the manifesto foreword: "thei have been forgotten, neglect and taken for grant by mr blair."

sai britain must chang direct, mr howard argu govern is too big and cannot continu "down the path of ever rise tax". he promis to ensur frontlin profession, parent and patient make the kei decis rather than whitehal "bureaucrat". and he sai the tori would get a grip on crime, immigr and disord. "the declin of respons and the prolifer of so-call 'human right' have left us in a moral quagmir, unabl to get a grip on rise crime and disord," he sai.

mr howard sai he will produc a timet for action so peopl can hold him to account but on issu like taxat he ha so far onli publish option, not specif plan. mr howard told bbc new: "i'm determin to lower tax but i'm also determin not to make ani promis i can't keep." the tori were unveil materi month ahead of the expect elect becaus thei need time to make voter awar of their polici, he said. he wa ask if tori support for the govern on iraq and ident card had given the lib dem the chanc to portrai themselv as the opposit to labour. mr howard argu the onli test for hi polici wa whether thei were best for britain. it had noth to do with put "clear blue water" between himself and hi oppon.

labour's elect slogan will be: "britain's work, don't let the tori wreck it again". campaign coordin alan milburn accus the tori of "launch thatcher in instal" while labour help the hard work major of famili. lib dem presid simon hugh said hi parti had set out it elect stanc in septemb. "the liber democrat will ask the british peopl for support thi year as the parti with the polici best abl to deliv freedom and fair and to restor trust," he said.
