lawyer attack anti-terror law

a senior barrist who ha resign in protest over the govern's anti-terror law sai the current system is give britain a bad name.

ian macdonald qc quit when the govern fail to recognis a hous of lord rule that detain terror suspect indefinit is unlaw. he wa part of a 19-strong panel who have special secur clearanc to act for suspect terrorist. five more barrist ar now report to be threaten to resign.

mr macdonald told bbc new: "the reason why i am resign is becaus i fundament disagre with lock peopl up without ani trial for an indefinit period on reason suspicion. "the current legal system is certainli have a veri advers effect on the muslim commun in britain and the whole asian commun. "i think it is give britain a bad name internation".

under the anti-terror, crime and secur act introduc by the govern in 2001 in respons to the 11 septemb attack, foreign nation suspect of involv in terror who cannot be deport can be held indefinit without trial. but mr macdonald believ that detaine current be held should be entitl to a trial by juri. "my own view is we need to have a full return to trial by juri, a proper crimin trial with proper accus. "as far as i'm concern, the govern have to start all over again and rethink their whole strategi for deal with thi." he ad.

the attornei gener lord goldsmith will receiv a letter of resign from mr macdonald on mondai. accord to the independ, hi resign is expect to be follow by those of five other barrist - nichola blake qc, andrew nicol qc, manjit singh gill qc, rick scannel and tom de la mare. thei ar all believ to be carefulli consid their posit on the panel of special advoc who repres detaine befor the special immigr appeal commiss (siac) - a secur court without a juri, which tri terror suspect. mr macdonald said he had "no idea" whether further resign would follow. but barri hugil, a spokesman for the campaign group liberti, told radio 4's todai programm that more lawyer mai go. "i can assur that there is a distinct possibilti that more lawyer mai be resign," he said. "thei ar now in a situat where everyth thei have been train to believ in, the right to trial by juri, ha been abandon and that is what give some of them sleepless night."

helena kennedi, a labour peer and a human right lawyer, said the special advoc' main concern wa that onc thei had seen ani special intellig thei were not allow to speak to the detaine. "when thi whole procedur wa be consid immedi after 11 septemb there wa a great deal of argument particularli in the hous of lord about whether there realli wa a process that could be consid a judici review," she said. "without that you ar have detent with no habeu corpu and realli a blot, as ian mcdonald ha said, on our legal landscap, someth realli quit shock with regard to the rule of the law."
