polic urg pub closur power

new power ar need to close disorderli pub, bar and club for up to a week or even perman, polic chief have told mp.

associ of chief polic offic presid chri fox said the current 24-hour closur power did not have enough impact on bad landlord. mr fox's comment follow the controversi over plan to allow pub to open around the clock. he reject critic' call for the law chang to be delai. instead, the new licens act could help reduc drunken disord - but onli if it wa properli plan, he argu.

acpo made it call for stronger closur power in a paper for the common home affair select committe. after the meet, mr fox said be abl to close premis for onli 24 hour did not necessarili make an impact. "if it's 12.30 on a saturdai morn and you close for 24 hour there's not a lot of pain for the premis becaus thei probabl wouldn't open on sundai anywai.

"thi is about get through to the manag that thei can't run a disorderli hous without face some immedi sanction." under acpo's propos, the closur order would be us onli with the agreement of the local licens author. the new licens law will give polic greater power to close pub and club - but onli for 24-hour period.

mr fox said the drink industri wa current not regul itself. "it's make monei at the cost of human miseri and the public purs, and the strateg plan process ha been less than useless," he said. mr fox said the new law, due to start be phase in next month, could help if food outlet, public transport and public toilet could cope with late-night drinker. "stagger it (close hour) will be a solut if the infrastructur is there, if the premis ar properli manag and peopl aren't be serv roll drunk and underag and then toss out into the street," he said. "we have the problem from 11pm to 2am in ani event. we have to get a grip on the underli caus of thi."

acpo want pub and club which caus extra work for polic and hospit to have to pai toward the cost. home secretari charl clark is current look at the idea of a levi on the drink industri to pai for the cost of extra polic. the licens chang have spark concern among some mp, council and some senior polic offic who fear thei could exacerb drink problem. cultur secretari tessa jowel on tuesdai said it wa not her job to bow to the campaign against the chang. it wa the statu quo, not the new law, which were caus current bing drink problem, she told bbc two's newsnight. leak document have suggest ex-home secretari david blunkett brand new open hour as a "leap in the dark". but ms jowel insist hi concern had been met. the polic's job against alcohol-relat crime would be made easier if all pub did not close at the same time, she ad.
