mp' murder sentenc concern

murder sentenc should not be reduc automat simpli becaus of a guilti plea, sai a new mp' report.

the influenti common home affair committe wa respond to sentenc guidelin issu thi summer. the mp also call for tougher sentenc for crime commit under the influenc of drink or drug. thei sai the influenc of drug and alcohol should be introduc as an aggrav factor when judg and magistr sentenc offend. committe chairman john denham said drug of alcohol were sometim us as an excus.

"the committe believ that these argument should be reject by sentenc and that be under their influenc should instead be an aggrav factor." at present judg, when sentenc murder to the mandatori life sentenc, can reduc the tariff - the minimum term thei must serv - if the defend plead guilti. but although thei ar spare the ordeal of a trial mani murder victim' rel ar unhappi. in juli thi year amanda champion's killer, jame ford, plead guilti to her murder and wa jail for at least 15 year - it would have been longer had he deni the charg.

amanda's uncl, lewi champion, told the bbc new websit ford did not deserv ani credit for hi plea, sai: "noth at all is worth take five year off a murder sentenc." mp criticis home secretari david blunkett last year for introduc last-minut rule allow reduc sentenc for murder who plead guilti.

the measur pass into law virtual unnot after mr blunkett introduc them at a late stage of the crimin justic bill.

as a result, sai the committe, the govern mai need to re-legisl to "remov ambigu" over how murder should be sentenc. it is also call on the senior judg in england and wale, lord woolf, to abandon draft guidelin he propos in septemb to reduc sentenc of murder who plead guilti. the committe said the plan had not reflect the "public disquiet" express over the possibl of significantli reduc prison term for murder. lord woolf's sentenc guidelin council (sgc) caus further controversi by suggest a on third discount off sentenc for earli guilti plea in all type of crime. as a result murder who face a 15-year tariff could get five year knock off if thei give themselv up to the polic.

mr denham believ the sgc should reconsid it propos to reflect parliament's wish that murder should be treat as a separ and especi grave categori of offenc. he said: "we want to see sentenc advis that in the case of murder, reduct in sentenc for a guilti plea should not normal be grant in addit to reduct for other mitig circumst." but a spokesman for the home offic defend the propos. he said: "by make express provis for murder tariff in the crimin justic act, parliament sent a clear signal that it expect murder to be treat differ to other offenc. "we stand by the provis in the act that cover guilti plea discount, which have potenti benefit for victim and wit of avoid the trauma of a trial."

shadow home secretari david davi echo critic of the wai mr blunkett introduc the murder tariff rule. "there is genuin concern about potenti reduct in murder sentenc - such action send out the wrong signal to violent crimin and complet undermin the govern's claim to be tough on crime," he said. but liber democrat spokesman mark oaten warn the mp' committe that bind judg too much might look like polit interfer. "the danger of have a prescript approach is that whilst everi murder is aw, it is also differ," he told bbc new.
