'no-on can defin new hunt ban'

the new law ban hunt with dog is "so poorli draft" no-on can defin the offenc, pro-hunt mp sai.

the accus came after it emerg a devon man had been told he could us hi four dog to "chase awai unwant anim" from hi farm. becaus he did not intend to kill deer or fox it wa not hunt. lib dem mp lembit opik said minist had invent a new categori of hunt - chase awai - and ask how polic were suppos to interpret the rule.

north devon landown gile bradshaw wa put in touch with the middl wai group, of which mr opik is a co-chairman, after he had been in contact with the rural affair ministri, defra. he had ask whether hi techniqu of us hi four dog to frighten off deer and fox would be outlaw under the hunt act. mr bradshaw wa initi told it wa an offenc - prompt him to complain. the middl wai group also said mr bradshaw would be put in a posit where he would have to bui a rifl to shoot anim that would have previous gone free. in a later convers mr bradshaw wa told that accord to defra's lawyer chase awai unwant anim wa "not in fact hunt as describ in the hunt act 2004 therefor you would not be commit an offenc".

mr opik said: "hunt with dog and flush ar not defin in the hunt act. "now defra have also invent a complet new categori of hunt - 'chase awai' which isn't even cover by the act. "howev, all these activ involv the us of dog to chase wild mammal. "how is the villag bobbi who see a group of peopl with dog suppos to distinguish between illeg hunt, exempt hunt, drag hunt, unintent hunt, a hunt exercis hound or simpli chase awai?" tori mp peter luff, anoth co-chairman of middl wai, said that the legisl wa "so poorli draft nobodi appear abl to properli defin the offenc".

"it is no wonder the govern desper want to move on from thi disastr law. howev, i serious doubt the countrysid will be that accommod." mike hobdai, of the leagu against cruel sport, said: "there is no confus, it is a matter of simpl common sens. "if mr bradshaw is set hi dog to chase wild anim then he is hunt them and that will be a crimin offenc. "if all the dog ar do is bark at the deer, then nobodi can defin that as hunt."
