hospit suspend 'no welsh' plan

an english hospit ha suspend plan to stop treat welsh patient who have wait more than three month.

hereford counti hospit had earlier said that from the new year patient wait longer than thi would be taken off wait list for hip and knee oper. gp in wale had fear patient could be push to the back of anoth queue. but after talk with powi health board the hospit call off it plan until health chief meet earli in januari. hereford hospit trust caus an outcri when it sent out a letter tell patient that for financi and administr reason it plan to turn down some orthopaed patient. shock health offici in powi said thi meant thei would be left with the prospect of patient and doctor have to find new appoint in other hospit. andi william, chief execut of powi local health board, had said it wa "a total unaccept wai to behav".

mr william had said he did not think it wa a welsh-english issu, but said hereford hospit wa "struggl financi and try to pass the problem back to powi". he had told bbc radio wale: "i have written straight back to the trust... to insist thei withdraw thi threat and treat the patient i am pai them to treat." but after the hospit had agre to the suspens, mr william said he wa optimist a compromis could be reach which would ensur welsh patient continu to be treat there. he said the problem had been caus by the differ in wait time target between england and wale.

the target is 12 month for welsh patient, but just three month in england. the contract with the powi health board wa worth £7m a year for the hospit and account for 12% of it patient. in a statement befor the suspens of the idea, the welsh assembl govern said the situat wa "unaccept". "but powi local health board is commit to ensur our patient receiv the care that is appropri," said the assembl govern. "although we will be challeng hereford's decis we will put in place appropri care for our patient. thei will be contact by their gp in the next week." earlier, david rose, chief execut of hereford hospit nh trust, had said: "it is with real regret that we have taken thi step. "we want to continu provid an excel and fast servic to powi peopl but can onli do thi if we ar paid to provid the servic. "in 2005 our wait time will fall to a maximum of 6-month and we want powi peopl to ask to be refer to our modern hospit. "we appeal to powi local health board to allow powi peopl to choos hereford for their treatment."
