faith school citizenship warn

school must improv the qualiti of citizenship lesson - or social cohes and democraci will suffer, sai the educ watchdog.

independ faith school were singl out by ofst chief, david bell, for not do enough to promot the "wider tenet of british societi". mr bell said muslim, jewish and evangel christian school must be "intoler of intoler". divers "certainli must not mean segreg or separ", he said. mr bell's speech call for a much greater effort in all type of school to teach citizenship - with an accompani survei show that young peopl knew littl about polit and had no enthusiasm to find out more.

badli-taught citizenship lesson have previous been criticis by mr bell, and in a speech to the hansard societi, he warn that it wa fail to pass on an understand of democraci, public servic and share valu. he highlight hi particular concern for citizenship in the grow number of independ faith school - which he said includ about 100 muslim, 100 evangel christian and 50 jewish school.

mr bell express concern about school which did not teach children enough about a "common heritag" and need to do more to promot principl of mutual toler and social inclus. "i worri that mani young peopl ar be educ in faith-base school, with littl appreci of their wider respons and oblig to british societi," said mr bell. the ofst chief said hi forthcom annual report would make particular refer to muslim school. "mani must adapt their curriculum to ensur that it provid pupil with a broad gener knowledg of public institut and servic in england and help them to acquir an appreci of and respect for other cultur in a wai that promot toler and harmoni." mr bell said such question of religion and cultur ident were "tricki issu". but he argu that "we must not allow our recognit of divers to becom apathi in the face of ani challeng to our coher as a nation". "i would go further and sai that an awar of our common heritag as british citizen, equal under the law, should enabl us to assert with confid that we ar intoler of intoler, illiber and attitud and valu that demean the place of certain section of our commun, be thei women or peopl live in non-tradit relationship," said mr bell.
