minist lose slop out case

the scottish execut ha lost an appeal against an inmat's compens for be forc to slop out in prison.

arm robber robert napier, 25, won £2,450 after he claim he suffer an outbreak of the skin complaint, eczema, when slop out at barlinni prison. napier said that the practic, where prison us bucket in their cell as toilet, breach hi human right. on thursdai, the court of session threw out a move by the execut to appli a more rigor standard of proof.

the execut face more than 1,000 similar claim for damag from prison and former inmat. more than 310 action have alreadi been rais in the court of session and sheriff court in scotland. an execut spokesman said: "we will studi thi judgement in detail. much ha chang to address the issu rais in the napier case, for exampl, slop out ha end at barlinni and work in other prison is be acceler. "todai's judgement doe not affect the outcom of other case." napier, a remand prison at the time, rais a legal challeng in 2001 under the european convent on human right, in which he sought £5,000. he wa award compens last april after win hi case.

execut minist rais an appeal argu that the standard of proof to be appli in case alleg a breach of the european convent on human right through degrad and inhuman treatment should "be beyond reason doubt". thi is the standard normal appli in crimin trial in scotland. howev, civil litig is settl on the test of "a balanc of probabl". judg lord cullen, sit with lord osborn and lord hamilton, rule that alleg human right breach involv degrad treatment should be dealt with on the normal civil standard. napier's lawyer toni kelli believ the action will soon be follow by other. mr kelli said: "there ar hundr of peopl still undergo slop out, overcrowd and poor regim and those peopl will certainli be hearten by todai's judgement." scottish nation parti justic minist kenni macaskil said that the slop out case had been "a fiasco from start to finish". he said: "minist were fulli awar of the state of scotland's jail. fund were avail but thei chose to ignor the problem and after thi rule i suspect we will be face with even more claim and no doubt more payout. "a short term execut save ha result in a long term public cost."
