escap prison report order

first minist jack mcconnel ha order a report on the decis to allow a paranoid schizophren knife attack to go on a visit unguard.

michael ferguson, 36, escap after be allow out of the high-secur carstair unit. the snp's nicola sturgeon ha demand to know who wa respons for sign off the leav. the scottish execut said minist would be notifi but it would "not be common practic" to sign approv. an execut spokesman said the health depart and the state hospit itself would work togeth on prepar the report. ministeri respons for carstair rest with rhona brankin, the deputi health minist. ms brankin said: "the first minist ha call for a review of what ha happen, we need to talk to the state hospit and we need to reflect on thi." ms sturgeon ha written to mr mcconnel ask for clarif on the move to allow the prison out. she said question must be answer about hi escap, if the public is to be reassur about safeti. polic ar still search for ferguson, who fail to return after a trip to east kilbrid on mondai.

the scottish nation parti's parliamentari leader argu that under the law, authoris of ferguson's leav of absenc would have come directli from minist. she said: "the scottish execut seem to indic yesterdai that the escap of mr ferguson wa a matter for carstair. "howev, my understand is that, under the mental health legisl, the decis to grant thi patient - and ani restrict patient - leav of absenc, would have requir direct and specif authoris by scottish minist." she ad: "i have written to the first minist todai ask for confirm of that fact. i have also ask him to confirm which minist would routin take decis of thi natur and what inform thei ar base on. "thi is not an attempt to apport blame, but to ensur a better understand of the decis make process in such import and sensit case."

polic said ferguson pose a danger to the public. bbc scotland polit correspond glenn campbel said the first minist had order an urgent report into the situat. he said: "we understand from the execut that in thi case no individu minist sign off the approv for michael ferguson to be releas unescort from carstair. "the execut conced that it is up to scottish minist, thei have a legal respons for approv thi sort of leav, but thei sai routin it is specialis offici that make that decis and simpli inform minist that thei have taken it. "but at that stage presum minist can ask hard question and can ask for reassur that the patient is not a seriou danger to the public or that ani risk ha been minimis." scottish conserv leader, david mcletchi, said earlier it wa "almost beyond belief that thi ha been allow to happen".

the execut spokeswoman said the recommend for leav wa agre by a psychiatr advisor "in conjunct with offici on behalf of minist". she said: "minist were told of that, notifi of it, but it would not be common practic for them to sign it off. "thei do have statutori respons, but the common practic ha been that peopl who work with the patient and have the best knowledg about risk would make that decis." ferguson, who slash a man in a doctor' surgeri in coatbridg in 1994, had been out to see hi fianc&#233;e annabella holm, 47, whom he met when she wa a patient at the high secur complex in south lanarkshir. he is describ as be 5ft 9in tall, slim, with blond hair, blue ey and a fair complexion. ferguson wa wear a black jacket, grei jean, black jumper and black shoe when he wa last seen. he ha multipl fade tattoo on hi left hand and a veri fade tear tattoo under hi left ey. ms holm is not miss but there have been no sight of ferguson sinc mondai. strathclyd polic ask anyon who spot ferguson to contact sergeant keith mcdonald on

.
