chancellor ralli labour voter

gordon brown ha issu a ralli cry, tell support the "stake ar too high" to stai at home or protest vote in the forthcom gener elect.

the chancellor said the vote - expect to fall on 5 mai - will give a "clear and fundament" choic between labour invest and conserv cut. speak at labour's spring confer in gateshead, mr brown claim the nh wa not safe in conserv hand. he said tori plan to cut £35bn tax would "cut deep into public servic".

to a pack audienc at gateshead's sage centr, the chancellor said the cut propos by shadow chancellor oliv letwin were the equival of sack everi teacher, gp and nurs in the countri, he told activist. lai into the conserv's record in govern he said: "i give you thi promis - with labour, britain will never return to the mistak of erm and 10% inflat, 15% interest rate, £3bn in lost reserv, 250,000 repossess, on million in neg equiti and three million unemploi. "never again tori boom and bust.

"thi will be the central divid line at the elect, between a conserv parti take britain back and plan deep cut of £35bn in our servic, and a labour govern take britain forward, which on a platform of stabil will reform and renew our hospit, school and public servic and, i am proud to sai, spend by 2008 £60bn more." turn to the economi, the chancellor pledg to continu econom stabil and growth in a third term in power.

he said after seven year labour had transform from a parti not trust with the economi to "the onli parti trust with the economi". it wa now a "parti not just of employe, but of employ and manag", he said. in the speech - which prompt a stand ovat from an audienc clearli "warm" to mr brown - he also promis to end teenag unemploy within the next five year. he also highlight plan for 100% debt relief for the world's poorest countri, a nation minimum wage for 16 and 17-year-old and the creation of a network of children's centr and flexibl in matern leav. the prime minist is to take part later on saturdai in an interact question and answer session, field queri sent in by e-mail, text messag and telephon as part of labour's attempt to engag the public in their campaign.
