council 'must find gypsi site'

minist ar tell council to find more site for travel, amid continu row concern a string of unauthoris encamp.

council ar also to be given stronger power to move on illeg settlement by gypsi commun on rural land. more monei is to be given to council to develop offici caravan park, said hous minist yvett cooper. in novemb, mp urg minist to make council creat site becaus 3,500 travel have no place to stop. ms cooper said an annual scheme to refurbish exist travel site would now be extend to consid council bid for new stop place. that scheme ha paid out £25m in four year, with £8m avail for 2005.

"there ar two major problem in the plan system at the moment concern gypsi and travel site," said ms cooper. "firstli, local author ar not identifi enough appropri locat either for privat or public site. and secondli, thei do not have enough power to deal swiftli with develop on inappropri site. "the result is that there ar too mani develop on inappropri site, caus tension and difficulti for both the neighbour commun and the gypsi and travel. "that is why we ar consult on a new oblig on local author to identifi more appropri site, as well as new power to take immedi action if the develop is in the wrong place and cannot be toler in even the short-term becaus of risk to local amen and the environ." under the new regul, expect to be in forc in the spring, offici will be abl to serv "temporari stop notic" aim at prevent work on a site befor a council ha had chanc to obtain a full legal ban. mani mp with rural constitu, particularli in eastern england, have been press the govern to creat stronger enforc power, sai villag ar suffer becaus of the legal delai in remov illeg encamp.

andrew ryder, of the travel law reform coalit, said: "we welcom talk about an oblig on council to identifi land for gypsi and travel, so long as it is a real oblig as oppos to a recommend which could be and wa easili ignor. "new accommod propos for travel need to be back up with decent fund and intervent by the govern when council attempt to dodg their respons toward travel, as thei often do. "live on the side of the road or be worn down by plan appeal, legal action and evict is no on's idea of fun." in their novemb report, mp from the committe scrutinis the offic for the deputi prime minist, respons for hous, said most illeg travel encamp were caus by a lack of place to stop. numer commun and council were pai for lengthi and expens evict against travel commun, said the mp. in turn, the problem had worsen becaus council were reluct to voluntarili provid site becaus of resist from resid. two of the most controversi travel site - cottenham in cambridgeshir and mineti in wiltshir - remain embroil in an ongo legal battl.
