plaid mp's cottag arson claim

a plaid cymru mp believ uk secur servic were involv in some arson attack blame on welsh extremist.

it is 25 year sinc the start of 12 year of fire-bomb, attribut to a shadowi group known as meibion glyndwr. plaid cymru's elfyn llwyd ha suggest the secur servic could have been involv, with the intent of discredit the nationalist vote. ex-welsh offic minist lord robert of conwi deni secur servic were involv. in march thi year, north wale polic reopen the case, sai materi kept dure their investig would be examin to find whether it would yield dna evid.

meibion glyndwr - which mean "son of glyndwr" - began burn properti in decemb 1979 in protest at home in rural wale be sold as holidai cottag to peopl from england. the group wa link to most of the 220 or so fire-bomb incid stretch from the llyn peninsula to pembrokeshir. the campaign continu until the earli 1990s. polic were accus in some quarter of target anyon who wa a nationalist. although on man, sion aubrei robert, wa convict in 1993 of send letter bomb in the post, the arson case remain unsolv.

as a solicitor, elfyn llwyd repres welsh singer bryn f&#244;n when he wa arrest on suspicion of be involv in the arson campaign. f&#244;n wa releas without charg . but now, as mp for merionnydd nant conwi and plaid cymru's parliamentari leader, mr llwyd ha argu that some of the terror attack mai have had the involv of the secur servic and not meibion glyndwr. he believ that element of the british secur servic mai have carri out renegad action in order to discredit plaid cymru and the nationalist vote ahead of elect. the claim is made in an interview for bbc wale' maniffesto programm to be shown on s4c on sundai.

mr llwyd said that the sophist of mani of the devic us in the attack compar to the crude natur of mani other, suggest a degre of profession which could onli have come from individu who knew exactli what thei were do. he said: "what i'm sai is that the role that thei took wasn't the appropri on, i.e. like an

agent provocateur

and perhap interf and creat a situat where it look like it wa the nationalist that were respons." the programm also heard from lord robert of conwi, who wa a welsh offic minist at the time. he deni that the secur servic plai ani improp role. mr llwyd's theori ha also been question by plaid cymru's former presid, dafydd wiglei. he accept that the fire damag plaid cymru's public imag but believ that the secur servic had their hand full at the time with the ira and anim right activist.


 - maniffesto can be seen on s4c on sundai, 12 decemb, at 1200 gmt.
