final hunt held as ban loom

hunt in england and wale have begun on the last dai that hunt with dog is legal, with more due out later.

thousand of support ar expect to turn out at more than 250 meet, mani of which have alter their normal schedul to be out on a thursdai. the ban on hunt with dog come into effect from 0001 gmt on fridai. the countrysid allianc had it latest legal bid to block the ban thwart on wednesdai when the appeal court rule the hunt act wa law.

but the group sai hunt will continu in some form after the ban come in, with hunt expect to test the new law to it limit. other ar expect to defi the ban by continu to hunt illeg.

anti-hunt organis, for whom the ban is the culmin of year of campaign, sai thei hope most will stai within the law. mike hobdai, of the leagu against cruel sport, told bbc new: "we've long urg them to go drag hunt - to follow an artifici scent - and that is what we hope thei do. "but if thei continu to chase fox, to chase wild mammal around the countrysid, that's against the law and we're confid thei'll be brought to justic." at the headquart of quorn hunt in leicestershir, feel were run high as hunt enthusiast prepar for their final legal hunt. bbc correspond sarah mukherje said hunt support were in tear.

she said mani peopl did not share the countrysid allianc's optim that hunt would be abl to continu. farmer geoff brook, a senior member of the quorn hunt, told bbc new peopl's live "revolv around hunt". he describ the ban as "ridicul" and "badli thought out" but said it would be hard for most peopl to defi it as thei would not want to risk their incom by get a crimin record.

at the court of appeal on wednesdai, the countrysid allianc fail in it attempt to have the hunt act rule invalid. but it sai the ban is unenforc becaus the law is unclear and imposs to polic.

the allianc sai hunt support will go out and test thi law to it limit on saturdai. the leagu against cruel sport and the rspca sai thei will monitor hunt and assist polic in bring prosecut. the associ of chief polic offic ha issu guidanc to forc on how to deal with the new rule. a spokesman said: "basic, it's not go to be polic offic chase about in car across field, it will be base on intellig and inform receiv as well." the decis on how to polic individu hunt will be left to local forc, with more offic sent to hunt where disrupt is expect. he said polic would consid evid submit by anti-hunt organis on it merit.
