falcon rebut 'charad' claim

concess on a bill which critic claim would allow euthanasia "through the back door" were not a polit ploi, the lord chancellor ha said.

minist have been accus of panic in offer last minut chang to the mental capac bill amid chaotic scene in the common on tuesdai. lord falcon said it wa fair to criticis the late time of the offer. he said the chang provid a solut to a veri difficult issu but some mp argu the situat is still unclear.

the bill allow peopl to give somebodi the power of attornei to make decis on their behalf if thei becom too ill to decid for themselv. minist insist the plan would not chang law on euthanasia and would improv safeguard. critic fear it could allow "kill by omiss" through withdraw treatment, includ food and fluid.

toni blair said he would do everyth he could to meet concern about the bill. but chang to the bill must not overturn the law set when a court rule that doctor could withdraw artifici feed and hydrat from hillsborough coma victim toni bland. "it is import we don't end up in the situat where doctor and consult ar confus about the law and mai lai themselv open to prosecut in circumst where no sensibl person would want that to happen," he said.

on tuesdai, the govern saw off a backbench attempt to forc chang to the bill by 297 vote to 203, despit rebellion by 34 labour mp. the revolt wa also reduc by new that lord falcon had promis the cathol archbishop of cardiff to strengthen safeguard in the bill. but that onli came after mp bombard constitut affair minist david lammi with a barrag of request for him to read the letter as thei complain thei had been left in the dark. eventu, he wa hurriedli hand the letter to read out five minut befor the crunch vote, prompt claim of a shambl. the deputi speaker later said the debat had not been handl as it should have been.

lord falcon sai there will be amend when the bill goe to the hous of lord. he told bbc new: "we have given a commit to put into the bill a claus that sai that noth in the bill authoris ani act where the motiv of the person authoris the decis is to end life. "the motiv ha got to be to end suffer." he deni the concess were a "polit manoeuvr" forc by panic about the rebellion. it wa inevit that mind becam more focus as the bill went through parliament but the result wa a "sensibl solut", he said. "i don't think it is someth to be embarrass about. these issu ar not easi to deal with," he went on. bbc polit editor andrew marr said mr lammi wa "wast deep in quicksand and sink fast" after hi perform. but lord falcon prais hi minist for an "excel job". former conserv leader iain duncan smith, on of the chief critic of the plan, condemn the debat as a "charad" and complain the promis of chang to the bill were vagu.
