school sport 'is back', sai pm

toni blair ha promis that "sport is back" as a prioriti for school.

the prime minist launch a £500m initi to allow school sport club in england to provid up to three hour of extra activ a week by 2010. "it's an import part of educ and it's an import part of health," mr blair said. but the conserv sai govern propos - which includ two hour' pe within school for 75% of pupil by 2006 - ar unrealist.

the latest move is aim at encourag more divers in sport, with activ such as yoga and tai chi be option. launch the initi, mr blair complet an agil cours and shot basketbal hoop with student from the all-girl waverlei sport colleg in southwark, south london. he said: "you've got to bring back school sport. it's got to be done differ than it wa 30 or 40 year ago. it's still veri, veri import."

earlier, educ secretari charl clark told bbc new there were at least three area which need "a coher framework" and "dedic fund". these were train for pe teacher, establish more specialist school and the develop of partnership for activ such as inter-school competit. he ad the govern had origin pledg "for everi pupil to get at least two hour of high-qualiti physic educ" a week. the proport wa current at 62%, and the govern wa hope thi would rise to 85% by 2008 and 100% by 2010. the monei for the initi will come from a new £500m fund.

the £500m move will also increas the number of specialist sport colleg from 350 to 400. but the conserv warn of rise obes level and said that sinc onli a third of children do two hour of sport a week current, the govern is promis someth it cannot guarante. shadow spokesman for sport hugh robertson said: "i suspect the correct wai to tackl it is to look at the other end of the spectrum and try to enabl the club - which is where the real passion for sport exist - to deliv the school sport offer." he said more emphasi should be put on tradit sport, sai that an "anti-competit sport agenda" had been pursu in recent year. martin ward, of the secondari head associ, said member did not like "ring-fenc fund" and that it should be up to the school themselv to decid how to spend their monei.
