anti-terror plan face first test

plan to allow home secretari charl clark to place terror suspect under hous arrest without trial ar set for their first real test in parliament.

tori, lib dem and some labour mp ar pois to vote against the plan. mr clark sai the power ar need to counter terror threat. oppon sai onli judg, not politician, should be abl to order detent of uk citizen. the govern is expect to win wednesdai's vote in the common, but face a battl in the hous of lord.

the prevent of terror bill wa publish on tuesdai. it propos "control order", which would mean hous arrest in the most seriou case, and curfew, electron tag and limit on telephon and internet access for other suspect.

the two opposit parti ar particularli worri that the control order would initi be impos on the sai-so of the home secretari, rather than a judg. tori shadow home secretari david davi warn of the potenti for miscarriag of justic, like the guildford four - for which toni blair recent apologis - as a result of the pressur on politician to lock up terror suspect. "those pressur would be much more for a politician than thei would on a judg and that's why we have seriou concern abut that approach," he told bbc radio 4's todai programm.

mr clark sai he doe not intend to us the hous arrest power now - even for the 11 current terror detaine. he also said that ani decis he made would be review by a judg within seven dai. the foreign terror suspect current detain ar mostli held at london's belmarsh prison. thei ar held under law which the law lord have rule break human right rule - and which ar due to expir on 14 march.

the new power, design to replac the exist law and meet the law lord' concern, would appli to british as well as foreign terror suspect. critic sai that give politician the power to depriv uk citizen of their freedom is the biggest attack on civil liberti for 300 year. opposit mp ar also angri thei will have onli two dai - wednesdai and next mondai - to debat the new plan befor thei pass to the hous of lord. but the govern sai the exist power run out soon so must be replac urgent.

in a rare move, the tori and lib dem have jointli tabl a motion oppos the new bill, sai the hous arrest plan ar "excess". it argu decis should be taken on a higher standard of proof and the plan "wrongli infring the right to liberti" by fail to bring terrorist to trial where there is evid. mr davi told todai: "it give a minist, for the first time in modern histori, the right to detain without trial, without show the evid and inde, in some respect, almost the alleg against the individu concern."

he question why there wa "such a rush" to introduc the legisl when mr clark had indic he wa not plan to us the hous arrest power straight awai. liber democrat home affair spokesman mark oaten said: "we believ it should be the judg that take decis, not politician." mr clark said the secur servic and polic back hi measur and it would be "rash and neglig" to ignor their advic. nobodi should doubt that terrorist at home and abroad want to attack the uk and it interest, he argu.
