blair reject iraq advic call

toni blair ha reject call for the public of advic on the legal of the iraq war amid grow call for an investig.

the prime minist told hi monthli press confer the matter had been dealt with by the attornei gener. earlier, conserv mp michael mate join call for a probe into claim lord goldsmith's statement to parliament wa drawn up at number 10. mr blair said the statement wa a "fair summari" of lord goldsmith's opinion.

"that's what he (lord goldsmith) said and that's what i sai. he ha dealt with thi time and time and time again," mr blair told hi monthli new confer in down street. he refus to answer further question on the issu, sai it had been dealt with "liter score of time and the posit ha not chang". lord goldsmith ha deni be "lean on" and sai the word written were hi.

the govern refus to publish hi advic on the legal of the war - sai such paper have alwai been kept confidenti. mr mate, who is a member of the common intellig and secur committe and wa part of the butler inquiri into pre-war intellig, told the bbc on fridai: "that, as a gener rule, is right, but it's not an absolut rule." he said there had been other occas when advic had been publish, most recent regard princ charl's marriag plan. the govern could not pick and choos when to us the convent, he said.

mr mate ad: "we discov that there were two or three occas in the past when law offic' advic to the govern ha been publish. "and thi mai be on of those special occas... when it would be in the public interest to see the advic which the attornei gener gave to the prime minist." thi is argument wa reject by mr blair, who said: "firstli, we haven't broken the preced, and secondli peter goldsmith ha made hi statement and i have got absolut noth to add to it." in a book publish thi week, philipp sand qc, a member of cheri blair's matrix chamber, sai lord goldsmith warn toni blair on 7 march 2003 that the iraq war could be illeg without a second un resolut sanction militari action.

but a short statement about lord goldsmith's posit wa present in a written parliamentari answer on 17 march 2003 - just befor a crucial common vote on the militari action. mr sand' book suggest it wa actual written by home offic minist lord falcon and down street advis baro morgan. former minist clare short, who resign from the govern over the iraq war, said it wa the same statement that wa earlier shown to the cabinet as it discuss militari action. she told the bbc the full advic should have been attach, accord to the ministeri code.

"my view is we need the hous of lord to set up a special committe, summon the attornei, get all the paper out, look at exactli what happen," she said. the conserv and liber democrat sai thei want the public of the full legal advic given by the attornei gener. on thursdai, lord goldsmith said hi statement had not been "written by or at number 10". "in my parliamentari answer on march 17 2003, i explain my genuin held independ view, that militari action wa law under the exist secur council resolut," he said.
