polic probe bnp mosqu leaflet

polic ar investig a british nation parti leaflet post to home in south wale oppos plan for a new mosqu.

anti-racism campaign in swansea have hand copi to south wale polic. swansea's muslim commun is rais monei to open a new mosqu and commun centr in the former st andrew unit reform church. the build on georg street ha been derelict sinc the 1980s.

taha idri, director of the swansea bai race equal council, said hi organis contact polic after receiv complaint from the public. "i'm quit shock to see thi sort of leaflet by the bnp in swansea," he said.

"the bnp ha tri in the past to get into swansea and thi is anoth exampl of them try again. "i am in no doubt that the bnp ar not need and not want here." a south wale polic spokeswoman confirm that thei were look at the content of the leaflet. accord to the bnp's websit, thei have been post to home in the castl ward. the bnp websit carri a photograph of parti leader nick griffin - who live near welshpool, mid wale - deliv the leaflet. the bnp ha deni it is try to stir up hatr of ani race or religion, but argu that thei should be abl to debat thi without fear of arrest. swansea unit against fascism (uaf) is meet thi week to plan a campaign. follow the death earlier thi year of kalan kawa karim, an iraqi kurd live in swansea, it organis an anti-racism march in the citi that wa support by more than 1,000 peopl. it is plan it own mail shot campaign and mai launch a petit in support of the plan for the mosqu.

andi richard, of swansea uaf, said the leaflet wa exactli what he had come to expect from the bnp.

"the peopl of swansea will not put up with thi." swansea's muslim commun bought the former church, just across the road from the exist mosqu on st helen's road, in the late 1990s. mr idri said the commun wa now rais monei to renov the build. "it is a landmark build in swansea and would otherwis just crumbl," he said. "it is the ideal opportun for the build to be restor and us in the proper manner. "it will be a muslim commun centr. it's a holist place us for educ, wed, death and birth." he said space wa limit in the current mosqu and on some occas muslim had to travel to llanelli for cultur event.
