blair sai mayor should apologis

toni blair ha urg london mayor ken livingston to apologis for hi "nazi" comment to a jewish report.

labour's mr livingston, who sai he is "stand by" hi remark, had accus an even standard journalist of be like a "concentr camp guard". mr blair told five's wright stuff show: "let's just apologis and move on." mr livingston ha said the remark mai have been offens but were not racist, and said he would not apologis even if the prime minist ask.

mr blair, who wa instrument in return mr livingston to the labour parti, insist on wednesdai it wa time for the london mayor to sai sorri.

"a lot of us in polit get angri with journalist from time to time, but in the circumst, and to the journalist becaus he wa a jewish journalist, ye, he should apologis," he said. "let's just apologis and move on - that's the sensibl thing." tori leader michael howard, ask about mr livingston's remark by report, said it wa import for politician to be mind about the languag thei us. "it's particularli import that as we get close to the elect that politician talk with civil and courtesi about issu that we all face," he said. "i think it's a matter of sad that we ar not see that from the labour parti. we had what ken livingston said, we had what alastair campbel ha said and we have what other have said. i think that's a matter of great regret."

the row blew up after mr livingston wa approach by even standard report oliv finegold follow a parti mark the 20th anniversari of former cultur secretari chri smith come out as britain's first gai mp. on tape, mr livingston, who onc work as a freelanc restaur critic on the paper, is heard ask mr finegold if he is a "german war crimin".

mr finegold repli: "no, i'm jewish, i wasn't a german war crimin. i'm quit offend by that." the mayor then sai: "ah right, well you might be, but actual you ar like a concentr camp guard, you ar just do it becaus you ar paid to, aren't you?" at hi weekli press confer on tuesdai, mr livingston said hi comment were not racist and refus to apologis. "if you think thei ar racist, i think you ar wrong," he told report. the disput come as an inspect team from the intern olymp committe began a four-dai tour to assess london's bid for the 2012 game. an offici complaint ha been made to local govern watchdog by the british jew, demand an investig by the standard board of england. it ha the power to suspend or bar mr livingston from public offic.
