jowel confirm casino climbdown

tessa jowel ha announc plan to limit the number of new casino in the uk to 24, in a move brand a "humili retreat" by the tori.

it put an end to plan for up to 40 super casino, origin outlin in the govern's gambl bill. instead there will be a cap of eight new casino in each size categori - small, medium and larg. the cultur secretari said the move show she listen to critic who fear an explos in gambl.

but conserv shadow cultur secretari john whittingdal said the wai the govern had handl the bill wa a "shambl". "thi announc is a further humili retreat by the govern. "instead of the initi intent of the gambl bill, to liberalis the rule govern gambl, the bill now impos a more restrict regim than exist at present." share in british casino oper london club intern, rank group and stanlei leisur, who had been hope the bill would pave the wai for a big expans in smaller casino, fell by between 10 and 25% follow the announc. ms jowel's deputi, richard caborn, said the govern had adopt a cautiou approach to the issu, and respond to the concern rais. "limit the number of region casino to eight in the first phase is a cautiou move that will allow us to test the impact of a new kind of casino on the level of problem gambl," he said. "we also believ it's right to appli thi same level of caution to small and larg casino."

he ad that local author would still be abl to stop new casino come to their area. church group welcom the limit on the number of casino. salvat armi spokesman jonathan lomax said: "the prolifer of these casino on high street across the countri wa a real concern and the [three year] trial period, which we think should last at least five year, will enabl research into the potenti sever social consequ of an increas in hard and addict form of gambl." but british british casino associ chairman penni cobham said her member were "outrag" by the decis, which follow a campaign in the daili mail newspap. "there wa never go to be a massiv explos of casino. talk of a casino on everi high street wa just a scare tactic."
