blair congratul bush on win

toni blair ha said he look forward to continu hi strong relationship with georg bush and work with him dure hi second term as presid.

mr bush's re-elect came at a crucial time for a world that wa "fractur, divid and uncertain", mr blair said. it had to be brought togeth, he ad, sai action wa need on poverti, the middl east and the condit on which terrorist prei. mr blair said state had to work with the us to fight global terror.

but there wa a need to recognis it would not be defeat by "militari might alon but also by demonstr the strength of our common valu" he ad. solv the conflict in the middl east wa the world's singl most "press polit challeng" of the present dai, mr blair warn. the prime minist also urg europ and the us to "build anew their allianc".

"all of us in posit of leadership, not just presid bush, have a respons to rise to thi challeng. it is urgent that we do so." mr blair also paid tribut to democrat john kerri's campaign, sai he had help make the presidenti elect "a true celebr of american democraci". the elect of the us presid wa signific for the world but particularli so for britain becaus of it special relationship, he ad. earlier tori leader michael howard sent mr bush hi "warmest congratul", sai: "we look to the presid to be a unifi forc for those all over the world who share our determin to defend freedom." liber democrat leader charl kennedi welcom the fact there had been a quick conclus to the elect, unlik in 2000.

mr bush's first task wa to "rebuild a sens of domest purpos" within the us, he said. mr kennedi said: "internation, it is to be hope that a second term will see a more sensit approach to relat with long-stand alli, not least for the global effort to combat terror." lib dem foreign affair spokesman menzi campbel said a win by mr kerri would have given mr blair the chanc of a fresh start, ad it wa almost as if there wa an "umbil cord" between mr bush and the uk premier.

"european must hope that hi administr will be much more multilater in charact, and that he will act swiftli to rebuild the atlant partnership which is so vital to secur. "iraq will remain an issu of potenti divis for some time to come." even befor the result becam clear, mr blair wa be urg to push for action on climat chang at hi first meet with whichev candid won.

liber democrat environ spokesman norman baker underlin the issu of global warm dure a common debat on anglo-american relat on wednesdai. environ secretari margaret beckett ha said the us will act on global warm despit georg bush's refus to sign up to the kyoto protocol on carbon emiss. public opinion would forc chang, she told bbc new. but myron ebel, an advis on climat chang to presid bush, ha said there would be no chang in the us stanc and reject the threat of climat chang. he claim the us wa the onli countri with independ scientist.
