guantanamo four free in week

all four briton held by the us in guantanamo bai will be return to the uk within week, foreign secretari jack straw told the common on tuesdai.

moazzam begg, from birmingham, and martin mubanga, richard belmar and feroz abbasi, from london, have been held by the us for almost three year. thei were detain in the cuban camp as part of the us-led "war on terror". mr straw said the us had agre to releas the four after "intens and complex discuss" over secur. he said the govern had been negoti the return of the detaine sinc 2003. all four famili have been inform of their return and have been involv in regular discuss with the govern, mr straw said.

but he ad: "onc thei ar back in the uk, the polic will consid whether to arrest them under the terror act 2000 for question in connect with possibl terrorist activ." the shadow foreign secretari, michael ancram, welcom the return of the four detaine. but he said there were still "seriou question" both over the possibl threat the four pose to the uk, and the treatment thei receiv while detain. liber democrat foreign affair spokesman sir menzi campbel said the four had been rescu from a "legal no-man's land". "their civil right were systemat and deliber abus and thei were deni due process."

azmat begg, father of moazzam, thank hi lawyer and the british peopl for the support he had receiv while campaign for hi son's releas. he ad: "if thei have done someth wrong, of cours thei should be punish, but if thei haven't, thei shouldn't have been there." lawyer louis christian, who repres mr abbasi and mr mubanga, said the govern should have act sooner. she said: "thei should at the outset have said quit clearli to the american govern that thei were behav in breach of intern law and that the british govern want no part of it and want guantanamo bai shut down. "thei didn't do that. thei collud with it." moazzam begg's labour mp roger godsiff welcom hi releas, but said question remain unansw, particularli about charg. ask about possibl damag mr begg and the other detaine could bring against the us, mr godsiff said: "peopl get releas from prison when it's found that their prosecut wa unsustain and thei ar quit rightli award sizeabl sum of monei. "i don't see ani differ in thi case." human right campaign have been outrag at the treatment of the detaine in cuba. amnesti intern ha call camp delta a "major human-right scandal" and an "icon of lawless". both amnesti and the lobbi group guantanamo human right commiss describ the releas as "long overdu". civil right group liberti said it wa "delight" but call on the govern to releas men indefinit detain in the uk without charg or trial.

director shami chakrabarti call on the govern to "practis what it preach" and either free or charg 12 detaine at belmarsh and woodhil prison. law lord rule last month that the 12 were be held in contravent of human right law but thei ar still behind bar. the us ha also announc that 48-year-old australian mamdouh habib, previous accus of terrorist offenc, will be releas without charg from camp delta. five british detaine releas from guantanamo in march last year were question by uk polic befor be releas without charg.
