tori attack eu asylum move

david blunkett ha been accus of us the "polit of confus" to disguis new eu immigr measur.

tori spokesman david davi told mp the uk wa lose it power of veto over who wa allow to come to britain. the eu ha opt to adopt qualifi major vote in thi area - previous measur need unanim agreement from all member state. mr blunkett told mp the uk would still be abl to reject propos on immigr it did not agre with.

he argu closer co-oper with europ over asylum and immigr wa crucial to control the flow of peopl into the uk. "if we don't like what other eu countri do on immigr and nation we have the right to opt-in or out to suit the british peopl," he said. the home secretari wa respond to an emerg question from hi tori opposit number mr davi. "the govern is emploi the polit of confus - i think, deliber," argu mr davi. "by confus the countri it hope no on will notic the disappear of the asylum and immigr veto." on mondai toni blair insist closer co-oper did not mean lose control of british border. he said an enlarg 25-member eu need a streamlin decis make process. mr davi said onc britain had opt into polici then it could not opt out - leav the uk open to unfavour interpret of what those polici actual meant.

he accus the govern of be "pathet" when it came to it effort over immigr and asylum and of "surrend" on the issu. and he ask why the govern wa agre to the measur on asylum and immigr now when the whole issu wa part of the eu constitut, which voter in the uk had been promis a referendum over. mr blair told hi monthli new confer britain had the "best of both world" and would keep the veto. "there is no question of britain give up our veto on our border control," he said. "with the treati of amsterdam seven year ago, we secur the absolut right to opt in to ani of the asylum and immigr provis that we want to in europ." mr blunkett met hi eu counterpart in luxembourg on mondai to consid propos aim at streamlin decis make on the issu.

the 25 member-state ar expect to scrap the requir for unanim agreement on immigr polici, in favour of the qualifi major vote (qmv) system. under thi scheme larger state such as britain ar expect to have more power than the smaller eu state. britain is expect to retain an "opt-in" right which will allow it to ignor ani measur it disagre with. liber democrat spokesman mark oaten call the chang pragmat and argu it gave a better chanc of produc a european asylum solut. "if we don't work togeth it mean some countri can ignor their respons at the expens of their neighbour," said mr oaten. "the liber democrat have long argu that britain should be a safe haven for asylum seeker but it's right that we don't do thi in isol."
