mandelson warn to bbc

the bbc should steer awai from "demonis" ex-down street media chief alastair campbel, peter mandelson ha said.

the european commission and former labour minist wa speak amid claim that mr campbel is part of a labour "dirti trick" campaign. that charg wa deni by mr mandelson, who said the tori were afraid of mr campbel's campaign skill. he warn the bbc that attack mr campbel had brought it troubl befor. that wa a refer to the hutton inquiri follow a bbc stori claim down street "sex up" iraq's weapon of mass destruct dossier.

the affair prompt the resign of bbc chairman gavyn davi, director-gener greg dyke and report andrew gilligan. labour ha attract media critic for us new freedom of inform law to dig up inform about tori leader michael howard's past.

mr mandelson, a former labour commun director, told bbc radio 4's todai programm: "i understand why the tori will be gun for alastair campbel becaus thei fear hi campaign skill. "what i understand less is why the bbc should be join with the tori in drive that agenda. "in my experi of these thing, parti which shout about dirti trick and the like tend to do so becaus thei fear a direct hit in some vulner part of their polit anatomi. "i suggest the bbc concentr on the issu and help the public to understand the polici and the choic that ar at stake in the elect rather than engag in the process polit, the trivialis of the campaign. "i think the bbc would be much better advis to leav all thi stuff well alon, concentr on the issu as i sai, not resum their demonis of alastair campbel - we all know where that led befor."

mr campbel is act as an advis for labour, which deni engag in person campaign. conserv co-chairman liam fox said mr campbel's return and labour poster plan attack mr howard - recent withdrawn from the parti's websit - were a sign of "abus polit". "the govern, despit the fact that thei would sai want to go forward, not back, seem intent on talk about histori rather than their own record or even more importantli, about the futur," he said on sundai. labour peer baro kennedi, who is chair the power inquiri into polit disengag, said peopl alreadi thought politician engag in dirti trick. "thi feel of distrust is go to be enlarg if thi campaign on all side is conduct in the wai that it look as if it just might," she said.
