polic chief back drink move

a chief constabl ha back the introduct of 24-drink, sai polic had a respons to ensur peopl could benefit from a law chang.

howev, norfolk polic chief andi hayman also warn that a great deal of preparatori work wa still need. "i don't subscrib to the view of some of my colleagu who ar come out and object to it," he said. hi comment come after the liber democrat back tori demand that the govern's plan be put on hold. andi hayman said he did not agre with politician and senior polic offic who have object to the plan, which come into forc on 7 februari. "i feel that is a prematur posit to be take," he said. among those who have criticis the plan ar the uk's top policeman sir john steven.

the metropolitan polic chief said last week that the plan for 24-hour drink should be re-examin becaus of a bing drink "epidem". howev, mr hayman said: "it would be total unaccept in my view for a chief constabl to sai, 'i'm veri sorri'. he said that polic should make sure that respons peopl who want a chang could benefit from more liber legisl. "my view is that i have got a respons to creat an environ where that can happen, " he said. howev, he believ a lot of preparatori work is still need to be done by polic, local author and the drink industri befor the nation wa readi for 24-hour drink. but he is confid problem in the earli dai can be "iron out". he believ the major of peopl favour thi law chang and "we have to accept that lifestyl ar chang". but aspect such as transport, and basic thing such as make sure public toilet ar open all night had to be taken into account.

prime minist toni blair ha defend the licens act, sai it is wrong to deni peopl the relax hour enjoi elsewher in europ becaus of a "tini minor" of violent bing drinker. a six-month transit period start on 7 februari dure which time venu can appli for extend licenc. the conserv have call for 24-hour drink to be shelv until the problem of bing drink ar solv. on mondai, the lib dem also call for a delai. lib dem home affair spokesman mark oaten said: "it would clearli be prudent to allow the polic and local author more time to prepar for flexibl drink hour." chief constabl mr hayman acknowledg that bing drink did caus problem. "if you come to norwich on a fridai or saturdai night you will see thing go on that will you make you feel asham. "howev, i want industri to succe in norwich and i want norwich to be the recognis nightspot of east anglia. "there is no wai i want to sai we cannot manag it or polic it. we can."
