game warn 'must be clearer'

violent video game should carri larger warn so parent can understand what their children ar plai, the trade and industri secretari ha said.

patricia hewitt is expect to call for the law ban the sale of 18-rate game to children to be enforc better at a game industri meet on sundai. she is concern too mani children ar plai game aim at adult which includ "high level of violenc". parent ar expect to spend million on video game as christma present.

violent game have been hit by controversi after the game manhunt wa blame by the parent of 14-year-old stefan pakeerah, who wa stab to death in leicest in februari. hi mother, gisel, said her son's killer, warren leblanc, 17 - who wa jail for life in septemb - had mimick behaviour in the game. polic investig the stefan's murder dismiss it influenc and manhunt wa not part of it legal case. ahead of sundai's meet in london, ms hewitt said she wa proud of the uk's "vibrant game industri" but wa concern too mani children were plai game which should onli be sold to adult. roger bennett, head of game industri bodi elspa, said ban violent game would be wrong. he said: "we don't want to go down that rout. we have seen that the govern is support of the industri." the govern is hold a further meet on fridai with industri and retail repres as well as the british board of film classif to discuss how label can be made clearer. ms hewitt said: "adult should be treat as adult and children as children. it is import that retail respect the classif and do not sell game with high level of violenc to minor.

"equal parent need to know what thei might be bui for their children. "video game ar differ to film or video, and not all parent have grown up plai game in the wai our children do. "we need to look carefulli at how we improv content warn and strengthen sale enforc." her call wa back by cultur, media and sport secretari tessa jowel who said: "you wouldn't let your child watch the texa chainsaw massacr. you wouldn't let them go to a strip club. "so you shouldn't let them plai an 18-rate game. it's the same principl - adult can make their own inform choic, but children can't alwai and need to be protect." anyon convict of sell an 18-rate game to a child can be jail for six month and fine up to £5,000. rockstar game, the maker of manhunt, ha said in the past it market it game respons and onli target it advert at adult.
