mallon wade into ne vote battl

middlesbrough mayor rai mallon ha been draft in to boost the ye campaign as the north east assembl referendum enter it final week.

the former polic chief, dub robocop for hi zero toler style, clash on thursdai with sunderland no campaign neil herron. mr mallon said an assembl would give local peopl more of a sai over kei issu such as transport and crime. but mr herron said north east peopl did not want or need an assembl.

the pair met on the platform at sunderland station as mr mallon tour the region highlight claim improv to transport if the area get an assembl. but mr herron - who gain fame as on of sunderland's "metric martyr" and is run hi own no campaign alongsid the offici north east sai no campaign - said he wa not convinc by mr mallon's argument. "the realiti is that it is not go to deliv," he said. "labour ha had two-and-a-half year to convinc peopl of thi. if you can't sell a deal in that time, it is a bad deal." on wednesdai, mr mallon provok furi by brand the offici no campaign "two-bit tori" in a confront outsid it durham headquart. "the campaign is be run by two-bit conserv who ar not interest in what happen in the north east; thei ar interest in hit the labour parti over the head," he said. mr mallon is a late recruit to the ye campaign after reject overtur from no campaign includ, he claim, tori leader michael howard.

most local observ believ the contest is too close to call, although littl recent poll ha been carri out. ye campaign chairman john tomanei said he hope for a late flurri of vote to boost turnout - someth he sai will boost their caus. he ad: "the govern exert a lot of polit power in the north east. the account should be in the north east as well." he also defend the decis to attack the offici no campaign's alleg polit allegi. "we felt we had to show what peopl were behind the no campaign - london tori spin doctor." graham robb, spokesman for north east sai no, said the ye campaign's decis to get person drag the campaign "into the gutter" and show thei were "rattl". and he hit back at mr mallon's claim that an assembl would improv transport link in the region. "it can push paper around but it can not get peopl move," he said. some 487,939 peopl had return their ballot paper by wednesdai - a turnout of 25.7%. the deadlin for vote is next thursdai, 4 novemb.
