tori oppos 24-hour drink

the tori sai plan to extend pub open time should be put on hold until bing drink is under control, despit back a law chang last year.

spokesman david davi said minist had fail to make hi parti awar of concern among senior polic that plan would caus more anti-social behaviour. nott polic chief steve green said innoc peopl would suffer. but cultur secretari tessa jowel said a delai would be "disastr" and she accus the tori of opportun. the govern would go ahead with the chang which would give polic more power to tackl excess drink, she ad. earlier chief constabl green question how hi offic would be abl to practic appli power allow them to shut down problem premis. "if you look at the market squar in nottingham, if a fight take place which licens premis do you go and lai the responsibilti at the door of?" he ask on bbc radio 4's world at on programm.

he warn that if drink establish were allow to open until three or four in the morn the polic would have to take offic off dai shift in order to do their job effect at night. earlier thi year the royal colleg of physician said it oppos the plan to extend drink hour when there wa alreadi an "epidem" of bing drink. minist richard caborn said the govern wa tackl the caus and the symptom of the problem by allow more power to close down problem premis. it is hope that allow pub and club to stai open longer will stagger close time and end the current situat where drinker spill on to the street all at onc. earlier toni blair defend the plan against critic from on of hi own backbench.

"my view of thi is veri clear: we should have the same flexibl that other countri have and then we should come down realli hard on those who abus that freedom and don't show the respons," he told mp. "the law-abid major who want the abil, after go to the cinema or theatr sai, to have a drink at the time thei want should not be inconvenienc, we shouldn't have to have restrict that no other citi in europ ha, just in order to do someth for that tini minor who abus alcohol, who go out and fight and caus disturb. "to take awai that abil for all the popul - even the vast major who ar law abid - is not, in my view, sensibl." thi week a judg claim easi access to drink wa breed "urban savag" and turn town centr into no go area. judg charl harri qc made hi remark as he sentenc three men for assault carri out while drunk and high on drug after a night out.
