new foot and mouth action urg

a senior tori mp ha criticis agricultur depart defra's "lackadais" approach to plan for a futur foot and mouth outbreak.

public account committe chairman edward leigh wa give hi reaction to a report by a govern watchdog on lesson to be learnt from the crisi. the nation audit offic said defra had improv it capac to deal with futur livestock diseas outbreak. but mr leigh said the depart wa "drag it heel".

that comment refer to the set up of a scheme to share ani futur compens cost with industri. he also said defra had been "dreadfulli slow" in pai some of it bill date from the foot and mouth crisi.

the outbreak, which began in 2001, led to the slaughter of 6.5 million anim, devast mani farm and rural busi, and is estim to have cost the uk up to £8bn. "four year after the outbreak, defra is yet to begin it plan review of some of it contractor' cost, and £40m of invoic remain unpaid," mr leigh said. mr leigh also point out that the introduct of an it system to help control futur outbreak had been delai. in novemb it emerg european commiss compens amount to just over a third of the monei the uk govern had hope to get as reimburs for the billion lost through the foot and mouth crisi.

minist had hope to get £900m from the european union vet fund to help with anim slaughter and other cost but in the end wa grant £349m. that wa becaus the uk had valu the cull anim at between "two and three time" the commiss's assess of their like market valu. nation audit offic chief sir john bourn said a new compens scheme wa now be look at. on the issu of the unpaid invoic, sir john said defra had paid 97% of the £1.3bn submit by contractor sinc 2001, "but ha not agre a final settlement with 57 contractor pend the result of it investig".

mr leigh said be "better prepar" would also help avoid the need for "mass funer pyre which provid an unsettl imag of the 2001 outbreak". a defra spokesman said: "we welcom the report. it acknowledg the progress the depart ha made sinc 2001 - particularli on conting plan and our improv capac and prepared for combat anoth major diseas outbreak. "howev, the depart is awar that there ar some area requir further work and we ar work to resolv them as soon as is practic."
