correct agenc plan drop

plan to creat a singl correct agenc for scotland have been scrap.

the scottish execut will not now merg the scottish prison servic with local author social work crimin justic depart. the nation correct agenc would have provid a 'on-stop' justic system but ha been abandon in the wake of stiff opposit. instead, scottish council and the prison servic will be compel to work more close to cut reoffend. the plan wa to ensur offend were monitor by the same bodi dure and after prison, prevent mani from be lost in the system and help more of them to stop reoffend.

scotland's reoffend rate is high, with more than 60% of prison reconvict within two year of releas from jail. thi is lead to an ever-expand prison popul and the execut want to tackl the problem. minist thought merg the prison servic with the council-control crimin justic social work depart, which provid commun sentenc, might have provid an answer. howev, follow a consult on the idea, justic minist cathi jamieson ha decid to drop the plan. instead, ms jamieson will chang the law to help produc a closer work relationship between both element of the justic system.

she will announc the move in her crimin justic plan on mondai, aim to "break down the barrier between what happen in prison and what happen in the commun". the new measur will place a new statutori duti on the sp to work with local author and other in area partnership. a nation advisori board on offend manag will also be creat to advis ms jamieson on the sp's role and perform in reduc reoffend. the minist said: "better joint work will help prison plai a much stronger role in end reoffend behaviour and in particular help address the revolv door of reoffend that see offend enter prison for short period dure which littl is done to address the behaviour that brought them there. "commun who ar pai the price for thi reoffend - both in term of crime and in term of prison cost - expect better. "it cost the taxpay £35,000 a year to provid each prison place and that cost is increas. "taxpay who suffer the consequ of crime also end up pai for keep those peopl in prison. "therefor, as we continu to invest in the servic, it is onli right that we seek to ensur that that servic becom more account to the public it serv, to minist and to parliament."
