tutu's guantanamo releas call

archbishop desmond tutu ha call for the releas of the remain inmat at guantanamo bai and terror suspect detain without trial in the uk.

hi comment follow new that all four briton held by the us in the cuban camp will be freed within week. the south african archbishop said detent without trial were "unaccept" and "distress". twelv foreign nation ar be held indefinit without trial in the uk under anti-terror law. refer to the detent in cuba, archbishop tutu told bbc new: "it is utterli unaccept. "the rule of law is in order to ensur that those who have power don't us their power arbitrarili and everi person retain their human right until you have proven conclus that so-and-so is in fact guilti."

moazzam begg, from birmingham, and martin mubanga, richard belmar and feroz abbasi, from london, have been held by the us at guantanamo bai for almost three year. on tuesdai foreign secretari jack straw told the common that the us had agre to releas the four after "intens and complex discuss" over secur. the briton were detain as part of the us-led "war on terror". the archbishop ad: "whilst we ar sai thank you that these have been releas, what is happen to those left behind? "we in south africa us to have a dispens that detain peopl without trial and the world quit rightli condemn that as unaccept.

"now if it wa unaccept then how come it can be accept to britain and the unit state. it is so, so deepli distress." follow mr straw's announc, lawyer louis christian, who repres mr abbasi and mr mubanga, said the govern should have act sooner. foreign nation detain in the uk ar be held at belmarsh and woodhil prison. in decemb the hous of lord, the uk's highest court, rule that the anti-terror measur broke human right law. but the men ar still behind bar.

archbishop tutu criticis the measur, sai: "i am oppos to ani arbitrari detent that is happen, even in britain." shami chakrabarti, director of civil right group liberti, ha call on the govern to "practis what it preach" and either free or charg the detain men. but the home offic defend the measur. a spokesman said: "these individu cannot current be prosecut becaus some evid, such as that provid by third parti, cannot safe be disclos in crimin proceed without put other at risk. "it is also current the case that intellig gain from covert intercept cannot be us in a court of law."
