thousand join strike in wale

thousand of civil servant were on strike across wale on fridai in protest at plan job cut.

a rang of servic in wale were affect as civil servant in wale join the uk-wide strike. the strike, call by the public and commerci servic union, wa the biggest by civil servant in a decad. the action follow chancellor gordon brown's announc in juli that 104,000 job would be cut, with around 6,000 of those expect in wale. the worst-affect area in wale will be the depart of work and pension where 2,000 job ar threaten. across wale, picket were held by strike civil servant with protest in town and citi includ cardiff, bangor, aberystwyth and wrexham. gordon brown issu a defiant statement about the strike, sai the action would not affect the govern's "determin" to make save in order to increas invest in healthcar, educ, transport and the fight against crime. "our decis mean more polic, more teacher, more doctor and more nurs," he said. "we will provid help with inform, reloc and retrain to help staff move into frontlin work within the public sector, but we will not be divert from these necessari chang so that we can make thi essenti invest." the uk-wide action hit jobcentr, benefit agenc, pension offic and drive test centr. the strike also affect the welsh assembl build in cardiff bai, where onli pass-holder were allow in.

picket were in place across wale, with protest around the countri. pc union spokesman jeff evan said: "in wale the civil servic is major employ, there ar more civil servant emploi in wale proportion than in ani other part of the countri. "our protest is about defend job and also local servic across the countri. "part of object on area and welsh-speak area will be particularli affect by these cut." the chancellor ha said that the cut will allow fund for more teacher and polic. pier freelov is senior benefit offic on the picket line at compani hous, in cardiff. he said: "the major of peopl have decid not to come in becaus of the threat to their job. "i join the civil servic to provid servic as well as get a decent pension, as we thought, and pai, and it's those servic that ar be threaten as well as our job. "peopl like pension need a face-to-face servic not an imperson servic on the phone which is what thei want to impos." pcsu deputi gener secretari hugh lan, who wa on the same picket line, said: "we're ask for them to negoti not just to make announc. "there's a sensibl wai to do thing and at the moment thei're not even talk about how to go about it sensibl." "the ballot wa for on dai's action. no further action is anticip without a further ballot of staff." the welsh assembl govern said: "thi is a strike about nation civil servic issu. it is not about specif issu local to wale or the assembl.
