top judg clash with minist

the uk's top judg ha reveal he ha clash with minist about how the head of public inquiri ar chosen.

lord woolf said he wa determin hi current veto on whether a judg should chair an inquiri should continu as a guard for judici independ. but he told mp the lord chancellor, lord falcon, wa insist he should have the final sai in such case. lord hutton's inquiri into the death of dr david kelli spark debat about who should run inquiri.

the govern sai the lord chancellor would be unlik to go against lord woolf's wish. lord woolf, who is lord chief justic of england and wale, wa give evid to the common public administr select committe's inquiri into public inquiri. he said he had not been involv in the choic of lord hutton, who as a law lord did not come under hi jurisdict. but he argu he should have a veto on whether judg gener should chair a particular inquiri and if so, which judg it should be. in written evid to the committe, lord woolf said: "i have, so far, fail to reach an agreement with the lord chancellor on thi issu ... i intend to maintain my posit and will press for thi safeguard to be in ani futur legisl."

judg should think carefulli befor head an inquiri into a highli polit issu, such as the intellig on iraq's weapon of mass destruct, he said. he argu: "the subject matter of the inquiri mai be so polit that it would be damag to the judiciari for a judg to be involv. "in addit, the question of whether there should be an inquiri at all mai be highli controversi and if a judg is appoint, the judiciari, as a result of the appoint, mai be seen as side inappropri with the govern." he told the mp: "anyth that tend to undermin the confid of the public in the judiciari worri me."

lord woolf said the current rule were not written down but it wa inconceiv in practic that the lord chancellor would overrul hi concern. but that situat could chang with new legal reform. the issu had been "overlook" when a new agreement wa drawn up about those respons and the disput had emerg in later discuss. "what i am ask for is a situat where if the lord chancellor cannot obtain my agreement [on appoint a judg], it doesn't happen," he said.

lord woolf said he did not think there would be difficulti but he want to establish the principl. a depart for constitut affair spokeswoman said lord woolf and lord falcon agre about what happen in practic. "their disagr is about whether the legisl should includ a requir for consult or concurr - a veri narrow disput, in lord woolf's word," she said. "as lord woolf also acknowledg, it is highli unlik that the lord chancellor would appoint a judg against the wish of the lord chief justic. "judg ar free to decid for themselv whether to accept posit as inquiri chair." parliament will examin the issu next year when it debat a new bill about public inquiri.
