lib dem target the student vote

student can decid the fate of mp in some seat at the next elect, liber democrat leader charl kennedi ha claim.

the parti sai the vote of student can win it 27 new seat at the poll. the figur assum all student will vote in their univers town. in fact, some mai vote where the parent live. the lib dem sai scrap univers fee win them student support. but the tori would also end fee and labour sai both would cap peopl's ambit.

the lib dem have name the 14 seat where there ar enough student to take the lib dem from second place to beat labour, and the 13 where thei could go from second to beat the tori. launch hi campaign to win student' vote at the london school of econom, mr kennedi urg student to "make their mark". he underlin lib dem plan to scrap univers fee and reintroduc mainten grant of up to £2,000. he said: "top-up fee put student off univers, especi those from a poorer background. "and is it realli right that so mani young peopl ar start out in life with mortgag-style debt hang round their neck?" mr kennedi also said student want action on the environ and see the iraq war, which hi parti oppos, as a defin issu.

labour ha push through plan to let univers charg fee of up to £3,000 a year, with the poorest student elig for non-repay support of up to £3,000. ahead of mr kennedi's launch, a labour spokesperson said: "like the tori, the liber democrat would restrict access to higher educ and put a cap on aspir, close the door to student with good grade and restrict their life ambit. "thei ar commit to abandon labour's target of get 50% of 18 to 30-year-old go into higher educ and under lib dem plan student would even have to studi near home." the conserv sai thei would abolish univers tuition fee and instead offer larg student loan at commerci rate of interest.

thei sai the lib dem polici would leav univers wholli depend for their incom on the "goodwil" of the chancellor.

shadow educ secretari tim collin is on thursdai set out a new scheme of vocat grant for 14 to 16-year-old to tackl what he sai ar "crippl skill shortag". the lib dem analysi of the differ student could make to it elect chanc is base on all student be regist to vote near their univers, not in their home town. although the expect 5 mai elect would be dure term time, student can vote by post. the elector commiss and nation union of student ar worri student in hall of resid can find it hard to regist to vote. some hall warden ar reluct to regist student becaus of data protect fear - but student can get themselv regist. if the elect is on 5 mai, voter need to regist by 11 march.


 - the seat where the lib dem sai student vote can swing the elect for them ar: bristol west, cardiff central, leed north west, cambridg, manchest gorton, sheffield central, oxford east, newcastl-upon-tyne central, liverpool riversid, holborn and st pancra, oldham east and saddleworth, manchest withington, islington south and finsburi, birmingham yardlei, surrei south west, taunton, orpington, haltempric and howden, eastbourn, isl of wight, dorset west, bournemouth east, well, canterburi, citi of london and westminst, bournemouth west, westmorland and lonsdal.
