custodi death rate 'shock' mp

death in custodi have reach "shock" level, a committe of mp and peer ha warn.

the joint committe on human right found those commit suicid were mainli the most vulner, with mental health, drug or alcohol problem. member urg the govern to set up a task forc to tackl death in prison, polic cell, detent centr and special hospit. there wa on prison suicid everi four dai between 1999 and 2003, mp said. the report, which follow a year-long inquiri by the committe, found the high death rate "amount to a seriou failur to protect the right to life of a highli vulner group".

mani of those who end up take their own live had "present themselv" to the author with these problem befor thei even offend, the report said. it question whether prison wa the most appropri place for them to be kept and whether earlier intervent would have meant custodi could have been avoid.

increas resourc and a reduct in the us of imprison wa need to address the issu in the longer term, the report said. committe chairman labour mp jean corston said: "each and everi death in custodi is a death too mani, regardless of the circumst.

"yet throughout our inquiri we have seen time and time again that extrem vulner peopl ar enter custodi with a histori of mental ill, drug and alcohol problem and potenti for take their own live." "these highli vulner peopl ar be held within a structur glaringli ill-suit to meet even their basic need. "crime level ar fall but we ar hold more peopl in custodi than ever befor. the misplac over-relianc on the prison system for some of the most vulner peopl in the countri is at the heart of the problem that we encount. "until we chang our whole approach to imprison vulner peopl we cannot begin to meet our posit oblig under articl 2 of the european convent on human right and meet our duti of care to them."

the committe also highlight "deepli worri" case of children and young peopl take their own live. between 1990 and 2004, 25 children have taken their own live in prison and two have di in secur train centr. it pick out the case of joseph schole, who hang himself from the bar of hi cell in stoke heath young offend institut in march 2002, and urg the home secretari to hold a public inquiri. it reveal that two week befor hi court appear for a seri of robberi, the 16-year-old wa depress, exhibit suicid tendenc and slash hi face with a knife about 30 time. even though the trial judg had been alert to hi experi of sexual abus and mental ill, he wa sentenc to a two-year detent and train order. nine dai into hi sentenc, joseph hung himself from the bar of hi cell window with a sheet.
