new rule tackl 'sham wed'

new rule on marriag for foreign nation live in the uk ar come into forc.

from tuesdai, most non-eu citizen will need home offic approv to marri. the home offic sai the new rule ar aim at reduc the number of sham marriag, of which there ar estim to be up to 15,000 a year. but immigr' group the joint council for the welfar of immigr (jcwi) sai the rule breach human right law and it mai mount a legal challeng. when the chang were unveil last year, immigr minist de brown said: "our aim is to avoid unnecessari disrupt of genuin marriag, while provid firm control to prevent abus." under the previou regul anybodi wish to get marri in the uk onli had to produc evid thei had been resid in the countri for a week and give 15 dai notic of the wed at the local regist offic.

but from tuesdai all non-eu nation, apart from citizen of switzerland, liechtenstein, iceland or norwai, intend to wed in the uk must either obtain a visa allow them to get marri befor thei enter the countri or appli for a home offic 'certif of marriag approv'. to get a certif, cost £135, applic will have to send proof that thei have a legal right to be in the uk. those without a settl statu, such as asylum seeker await a decis on their applic, will have no right to marri in the uk.

onc thei have the necessari document, those subject to immigr control wish to get marri in england or wale must regist their intent to marri at on of 76 special-design regist offic. thei can, howev, marri at the regist offic or church of their choic. rhian beynon of the jcwi said the new rule were "not proportion" and "discriminatori".

"these rule mean in some case the home secretari is go to be a marriag registrar of last resort. "we're current take a legal opinion on thi. we'll be look for peopl whose right to marri is breach and we'll be look at take a case on thi to the human right court," ms beynon said. the new rule have also been call into question by the parliamentari joint committe on human right. in a report publish last juli the cross-parti committe state there wa a "signific risk" the new procedur were incompat with the right to marri becaus thei introduc restrict which were "disproportion". the committe believ the new law might be incompat with the human right act on the ground of religion, belief and nation, the report ad.

over the last year immigr servic oper against marriag of conveni have been step up result in a grow number of convict. in januari 25 peopl who took part in a sham marriag network base in leicest were jail for a total of 35 year. and last novemb samuel amoah, a belgian nation who set up two sham wed for coupl who want to remain in the uk, wa jail for three year. sever other case ar current go through the court. the role of registrar who under the asylum and immigr act 1999 were oblig to report suspect sham marriag to the home offic, ha been kei in mani prosecut. registrar' spokesman, mark rimmer, said thei welcom the new marriag regul and believ thei would be an signific deterr. "thei will effect remov most of the blatant case. certainli those who ar illeg in thi countri, of which we had quit a few, will no longer be get marri," mr rimmer said. mr rimmer, the servic director for registr of marriag at brent council in north-west london, said he did not consid the new law to be an infring of civil liberti. "it mai be seen to be far more draconian than it ha been but certainli it's still not as difficult to marri in the uk than it is to marri, for exampl, in holland, germani or franc. "i think it's a proportion respons by govern to what wa a veri larg problem," mr rimmer said.
