minist 'naiv' over phone-tap

the govern is be naiv by refus to allow phone-tap evid in court, a senior eu politician sai.

javier solana, eu foreign polici chief, sai phone-tap evid work in the court of other european countri. human right group, top polic offic and mani mp sai allow the evid would remov the need to detain terror suspect without charg. but home secretari charl clark sai the evid would not make much differ to these case. mr solana told itv1's jonathan dimblebi programm: "[phone-tap evid in court] work, it is normal that it is done, it would be naiv not to do it. "it would be naiv not to us thi technolog thing that we have at our dispos." mr solana's comment come the dai after sir ian blair, the newli-appoint metropolitan polic commission, said he wa in favour of phone-tap evid.

under the anti-terror crime and secur act 2001, foreign terror suspect can be detain in british jail without trial or charg. sever suspect have been detain under these power becaus evid against them wa deem too sensit to be heard in court.

some of thi evid is believ to be telephon intercept. human right group liberti ha argu that if intercept evid could be heard, these detaine could be brought to trial. but critic of phone-tap trial sai the evid is often weak and can expos the method of the secur servic. the home secretari sai intercept would not make much differ becaus case against terror suspect frequent reli on other kind of surveil. but mr clark ha been forc to chang the regim of detent without trial after law lord rule it illeg. he ha opt for a system of "control order" wherebi suspect, both british and foreign, can be held under hous arrest or surveil. these order will again involv a uk opt-out of part of the european convent on human right. while accept that peopl "have to be prepar" for a possibl terrorist attack, mr solana said he had "qualm" about the home secretari's new plan. "we have to fight terror with all our mean, but not so far as to chang our wai of life," he said.
