blair dismiss quit claim report

toni blair ha dismiss report he told gordon brown he would quit befor the next gener elect.

"you don't do deal over job like thi," the prime minist told bbc on's breakfast with frost programm. accord to a new book, brown's britain, mr blair went back on a pledg to make wai for mr brown after cabinet alli interven in june 2004. mr blair said the claim were "reheat from six month ago" and that he wa concentr on run the countri. mr blair said: "i've dealt with thi six month ago. i said then you don't do deal over job like thi - you don't.

"what both of us ar actual concentr on ar the issu that concern the countri." the book, by sundai telegraph journalist robert peston and serialis in the newspap, said the pair had "mutual animos and contempt" for each other.

it claim toni blair felt by novemb 2003 he had lost voter' trust becaus of the iraq war and that he wa no longer an asset to the labour parti. and that at a dinner host by deputi prime minist john prescott he told mr brown of hi intent to stand down. accord to mr peston the prime minist said: "help me to get through the year and i will then stand down." but he then chang hi mind in june 2004, follow intervent from alli in the cabinet and the suspicion that the chancellor wa deliber manoeuvr against him, accord to the book.

mr peston told bbc new: "my understand is that thei ar not nearli as close or as friendli as thei onc were. "what the book sai is there is now a pretti profound mutual mistrust, mutual animos. "i think in public you see thi doubl-act pretend everyth is alright, but in privat i don't think the relationship is good becaus brown, understand, feel deepli betrai - particularli over thi issu of the leadership." but, in a wide-rang bbc interview cover issu such as the asian tsunami disast, the middl east peac process and northern ireland, mr blair said: "when you get to the top in polit you get thi huge swell around you. "all sort of peopl make all sort of claim and counter-claim." he admit to a "sens of frustrat" about the alleg which he said had been made "countless time".

there ha been fresh specul of a rift recent, follow their separ respons to the asian tsunami. these rumour were fuell by mr blair's decis to hold hi monthli media confer at the same time as a long-plan speech by mr brown on uk plan to tackl global poverti with a new "marshal plan" for africa. there wa specul the pair were try to outdo each other's respons to the disast. but the prime minist said he had discuss these claim with the chancellor and dismiss them as a "load of nonsens". former welfar minist frank field mp said the prime minist should sack mr brown, but did not believ mr blair wa strong enough to do so.

tori leader michael howard accus the prime minist and mr brown of "squabbl like schoolboi". he told sky new' sundai with adam boulton: "thi is the polit of the playground and britain realli doe deserv better." the liber democrat parliamentari chairman matthew taylor said the person ambit of mr blair and mr brown wa "get in the wai of good govern". "either thei need to grow up and put their squabbl to on side or thei cannot expect the elector to support a divid govern at the next elect." dure the interview mr blair also said the former home secretari david blunkett would plai a "big role" at the gener elect.
