jamieson issu warn to bigot

scotland's justic minist ha warn bigot soccer fan that she want to hit them "where it hurt most" by ban them from match.

cathi jamieson said exclus order ar on of a seri of measur be consid in the scottish execut campaign against sectarian. she prais celtic and ranger for their work in tackl the problem. howev, the minist said stop sectarian abus associ with old firm match is a kei object. ms jamieson wa speak ahead of the third round scottish cup clash between the glasgow club at parkhead on sundai. the sectarian long associ with section of the support from both club ha becom a signific target for the execut. last week ms jamieson and first minist jack mcconnel met support' repres from both club to discuss the issu.

thei plan to hold an anti-sectarian summit next month with offici from the club, church leader, senior polic offic and local author chief among those to be invit. speak on bbc radio scotland's sundai live programm, ms jamieson describ fridai's meet as "veri product" and said put the squeez on the bigot would be a kei aim. ms jamieson stress that sectarian ha not been confin to footbal but it can act as a "trigger" for tension and violenc. club have taken action in the past to ban troublesom fan and support' group express their desir to ensur that the game is no longer taint by the problem.

ms jamieson said the execut should have a role in tackl the soccer troublemak. she said: "we can't get awai from the fact that in some instanc some of the religi hatr that some peopl try to associ with footbal boil over into violenc. "that is the kind of thing we want to stop and that's the kind of thing support' group ar veri clear thei don't want to be part of either, and thei will work with us to try and deal with that."

ms jamieson prais the polic for their action and said: "the polic do want to identifi whether there ar particular individu who ar go over the top and incit hatr or violenc - thei will crack down veri effect on them. "we have of cours alreadi indic that we will consid the introduct of ban order to give addit power to where there ar peopl who ar go over the top, who have made inappropri behaviour at footbal match, to be abl to stop them attend the game. "that's the kind of thing that will hit those kind of peopl where it hurt the most in not allow them to attend the game," she said. prais celtic and ranger for their effort, she said: "i don't think there is ani doubt that we have seen some posit move from the club. "both ranger and celtic footbal club have been involv in work with the execut to produc, for exampl, an educ pack for young peopl."
