clark plan migrant point scheme

anyon plan to move to the uk will have to pass a test to prove thei can contribut to the countri, home secretari charl clark ha said.

he is propos a point system similar to australia's but would avoid the quota system plan by the tori. mr clark, who will unveil hi plan on mondai, said econom migrat help the uk but "need proper polic". the lib dem sai thei will look at hi plan, but tori liam fox said hi parti offer a "clear choic" on the issu. the conserv parti co-chairman said the british elector had a choic between a labour govern that had "done noth for eight year and will not set a limit" on immigr and a tori on that would impos quota.

the home secretari said, by 2008, he want everyon given a visa and enter the uk to have their fingerprint taken, to "ensur we can know everybodi who is in the countri". speak on bbc on's breakfast with frost, he said "econom migrant ar of great valu to thi countri", but stress that proper polic wa need to ensur that thei do not becom a "burden on societi". he said: "we will establish a system ... which look at the skill, talent and abil of peopl seek to come and work in thi countri, and ensur that when thei come here thei have a job and can contribut to the economi of the countri."

the home secretari, whose five-year blueprint for immigr and asylum is expect to be publish on mondai, also reject claim that the immigr debat encourag bigotri. "the issu of who doe come into thi countri, and whether thei ar entitl to be in thi countri, who doe settl here, how we have border control, is a perfectli legitim aspect of public debat," he said. liber democrat home affair spokesman mark oaten said: "whilst it is good that labour ha reject the tori idea of quota on asylum, the juri is still out on the home offic's abil to deliv a fair and effici asylum system."

mr howard ha said britain should take it fair share of the world's "genuin refuge". but he claim the current asylum system is be abus - and with it britain's generos. trevor phillip, chairman of the commiss for racial equal, call on mr clark to denounc the suggest britain's hospit wa be test by immigr. "tell that to the 44,000 doctor in the nh and the 70,000 nurs without whom we would realli see what pressur on the health servic mean," he said. "ditto the teacher, from south africa, australia, jamaica, who ar reduc the size of our class and school." the refuge council said mr howard's propos would mean there would be no safe haven in the uk.
