clark defend terror detent

the home secretari ha defend hi decis not to releas foreign terror suspect despit a legal rule their detent breach human right law.

hous of lord law lord rule against the detent measur last week. thei said it wa wrong to have on set of law for foreign suspect and anoth for british suspect. new home secretari charl clark said he would carefulli consid the rule and would return to parliament earli in the new year with propos.

he insist that he would not be rush into judgement but would examin the law lord' find in detail. "my duti is to look at first of all the secur of thi countri and in so do to consid veri carefulli the precis legal measur that there ar." mr clark's comment came in respons to an emerg question from liber democrat constitut affair spokesman david heath. mr heath said the judgement contain "unpreced condemn and could not have been more unequivoc". he said he accept the difficult balanc between the nation's secur and human right but question why the home offic had made "no conting plan for the present circumst".

"these detaine should be prosecut and tri. simpli renew the present deepli unsatisfactori legisl is not an option." shadow home secretari david davi said it wa not possibl to overst the import of the judgment and urg the govern to move as fast as "compet possibl" to sort the problem out in the interest of natur justic. "if you do, we will give you everi support." the law lord' rule came on charl clark's first dai as home secretari last thursdai follow david blunkett's resign. in a statement on the same dai, mr clark said: "i will be ask parliament to renew thi legisl in the new year. "in the meantim, we will be studi the judgment carefulli to see whether it is possibl to modifi our legisl to address the concern rais by the hous of lord."

but the govern wa wide criticis for insist the detent would continu follow the rule last week. lord bingham - a senior law lord - said the rule were incompat with the european convent on human right as thei allow detent "in a wai that discrimin on the ground of nation or immigr statu" by justifi detent without trial for foreign suspect, but not briton. lord nichol of birkenhead, in hi rule, said: "indefinit imprison without charg or trial is anathema in ani countri which observ the rule of law." the detaine took their case to the hous of lord after the court of appeal back the home offic's power to hold them without limit or charg. the govern opt out of part of the european convent on human right concern the right to a fair trial in order to bring in anti-terror legisl in respons to the 11 septemb attack in the us.
