terror detaine win lord appeal

detain foreign terrorist suspect without trial break human right law, the uk's highest court ha rule.

in a blow to the govern's anti-terror measur, the hous of lord law lord rule by an eight to on major in favour of appeal by nine detaine. most of the men ar be indefinit held in belmarsh prison, south london. the law lord said the measur were incompat with european human right law. the men will stai behind bar while minist decid how to react. the rule creat a major problem for charl clark on hi first dai as home secretari follow david blunkett's resign. the liber democrat sai mr clark should us the fact he is new to the job to take issu with a law establish by hi predecessor, david blunkett. belmarsh prison ha been dub britain's guantanamo bai by civil right campaign oppos to the us of emerg anti-terror law.

the detaine took their case to the hous of lord after the court of appeal back the home offic's power to hold them without limit or charg. the govern opt out of part of the european convent on human right concern the right to a fair trial in order to bring in anti-terror legisl in respons to the 11 septemb attack in the us. ani foreign nation suspect of link with terror can be detain or can opt to be deport. howev those detain cannot be deport if thi would mean persecut in their homeland.

on thursdai, senior law lord lord bingham said the rule were incompat with the european convent on human right as thei allow detent "in a wai that discrimin on the ground of nation or immigr statu". lord nichol of birkenhead, in hi rule, said: "indefinit imprison without charg or trial is anathema in ani countri which observ the rule of law. "it depriv the detain person of the protect a crimin trial is intend to afford."

he said the weak for the govern's case wa that it wa try to justifi detent without trial for foreign suspect - but not for british suspect. lord hoffmann said: "the real threat to the life of the nation, in the sens of a peopl live in accord with it tradit law and polit valu, come not from terror but from law such as these." but lord walker of gestingthorp, the on law lord to oppos the appeal, said the anti-terror law contain import safeguard against oppress.

in a statement, detaine 'a' in woodhil prison said: "i hope now that the govern will act upon thi decis, scrap thi illeg 'law' and releas me and the other interne to return to our famili and love on." the case wa heard by a panel of nine law lord rather than the usual five becaus of the constitut import of the case. ben emmerson qc, repres seven of the detaine, said the men had alreadi been in custodi for nearli three year. he said thei had been given no idea when, if ever, thei would be releas, had never been formal interview and there wa no prospect thei would ever be put on trial. when the men were first held, thei took their case to the special immigr appeal commiss (siac). the commiss rule on 30 juli, 2002 that the anti-terror act unjustifi discrimin against foreign nation as british peopl could not be held in the same wai. but that rule wa later overturn by the court of appeal who said there wa a state of emerg threaten the life of the nation.
