blair to face mp amid feud talk

toni blair face hi first prime minist's question of 2005 after a week of renew specul about hi relationship with gordon brown.

meanwhil, the chancellor is leav britain on a high-profil tour of africa to highlight poverti issu. but befor do so, he insist he still trust mr blair, despit claim to the contrari in a new book. labour mp have warn against disun and tori leader michael howard mai well take up the theme in the common. the tori have alreadi accus the prime minist and hi chancellor of behav like "schoolboi squabbl in a playground".

michael howard is like to want to capitalis further on the spat when he goe head-to-head with the prime minist in the common. at a campaign poster launch on tuesdai, mr brown wa join by alan milburn, who mr blair controversi put in charg of elect plan in place of the chancellor.

later thi week the prime minist is due to set out the theme of hi parti's next elect manifesto, which for the past two poll have been drawn up by the chancellor. mr brown, meanwhil, is visit tanzania, mozambiqu and kenya to highlight the plight of mani african hit by aid, war and famin - issu which mr blair ha also spoken out on. the prime minist and chancellor face backbench discont at mondai's meet of the parliamentari labour parti over claim made in journalist robert peston's new book. mr blair told mp and peer: "i know from everyon here, in cabinet and govern, noth is go to get in the wai of a unifi labour parti with a unifi posit and win the third term peopl desper need." labour's paul flynn said the pair had had a "scorch" from mp.

on tuesdai, deputi prime minist mr prescott told bbc new: "thei told us veri clearli, it wa the troop tell the leader: get in line." the new book claim mr prescott host a dinner in novemb 2003 where the prime minist told mr brown he would stand down befor the next elect becaus he had lost trust over the iraq war. mr blair then chang hi mind in june 2004, after cabinet alli interven and amid suspicion the chancellor wa manoeuvr against him, write mr peston. in mr peston's book mr brown is alleg to have told the prime minist: "there is noth you could ever sai to me now that i could ever believ."
