clark face id card rebellion

charl clark face hi first real test as home secretari on mondai with a possibl backbench rebellion over the controversi id card bill.

up to 30 labour mp could oppos the scheme dure a common debat. mr clark, who took on the post on thursdai after david blunkett quit, ha reject call to "paus" on the bill. tori leader michael howard also face a possibl rebellion after decid to back ident card. the liber democrat oppos the plan.

mr clark, write in the time, accus some critic of "liber woolli think and spread fals fear" by claim id card would erod civil liberti. he write that it is actual a "profoundli civil libertarian measur becaus it promot the most fundament civil liberti in our societi - which is the right to live free from fear crime and fear". mr clark is expect to try and win over oppon to the scheme by sai offici who secretli access inform thei were not allow to see would face up to two year in jail. he is also expect to cut the £85 cost of the card and passport, for the elderli and those on lower incom.

mr howard last week said hi front bench team had reach a "collect view" to back id card after hold a "good discuss", but admit it wa "not an easi issu". he had decid to support the plan as the polic said thei would help fight terror, crime and illeg immigr. but former shadow attornei gener bill cash said there wa still "veri deep" disquiet about the plan among senior tori. he told bbc radio 4's todai the govern wa "intens authoritarian" and wa creat "increasingli a big brother societi". critic argu that introduc the card would be a costli scheme with no specif aim.

minist sai it would help the fight against terror, illeg immigr and organis crime. but oppon sai that similar scheme in other countri have not prevent attack like the madrid rail bomb. on sundai, lib dem leader charl kennedi repeat hi call for a "paus" in consid the legisl.

he told bbc's breakfast with frost programm that mr clark had a "real opportun" on mondai follow the departur of mr blunkett. "if you were run a famili or a busi would you have the second read of the ident card bill tomorrow or would you paus to reflect and see what you might do about it in the new year? "that is the sensibl wai to go about it but i think thi govern ha got itself so much into tram line now that it is not behav sensibl at all." the first card would be issu in 2008 and, when he wa introduc the bill, mr blunkett suggest parliament could decid in 2011 or 2012 whether to make it compulsori for everybodi to own the card, although not to carri them. the new bill would also creat new crimin offenc on the possess of fals ident document.
