iraqi win death test case probe

the famili of an iraqi civilian allegedli kill by uk troop have won a challeng against the govern's refus to order a full inquiri.

the high court rule on tuesdai that baha mousa's death in british custodi in iraq fell within the european convent on human right. and the judg pave the wai for an independ inquiri by sai previou investig were inadequ. but judici review into five other death in southern iraq were rule out. their famili will be appeal against the judgement.

the famili' solicitor phil shiner describ it as "a histor dai for human right and the rule of law in the uk". father-of-two mr mousa, 28, a hotel receptionist, wa arrest with eight men seiz at a hotel in basra in septemb 2003. he wa allegedli beaten to death while in the custodi of the queen's lancashir regiment. the iraqi famili' lawyer argu that fail to adequ investig the death breach the european convent on human right.

ministri of defenc lawyer argu the uk-control area of southern iraq wa outsid european jurisdict. but lord justic rix and mr justic forb rule that uk jurisdict could extend to a uk-run prison, but did not appli "to the total territori of anoth state". thei said as mr mousa wa in custodi when he di, hi case came within the uk's jurisdict. the other five iraqi did not die in custodi, so their case had to fail, thei said.

and it wa difficult to sai that the investig which had alreadi occur "ha been time, open or effect", the judg said. after the rule carla ferstman, legal director of the human right organis redress, said: "it is not enough for the militari to investig behind close door. "there must be an effect public investig by an independ offici bodi. onli such an investig could reveal what realli happen and who might be respons." other alleg involv british soldier includ the shoot of an iraqi polic commission and the shoot of four iraqi civilian in mai 2003. both side were grant permiss to appeal.

prime minist toni blair's offici spokesman said: "obvious we will need to studi thi detail judgment. i would point out, howev, that a separ crimin case is current be consid by the armi prosecut author. "i can't sai anyth further for obviou reason. the mod ar consid whether to appeal." but former british command colonel bob stewart said : "anyon at the top [of the militari] will be sadden by the verdict that ha taken place but will sai: 'if there's a case to answer, let's have it out. becaus we don't want peopl think that british soldier beat up civilian and get awai with it'," he said. "the ministri of defenc doe everyth in it power to try to prove we act ethic and properli under the rule of war."
