burglar defenc guidelin issu

household who injur or even kill intrud ar unlik to be prosecut - provid thei were act "honestli and instinct", new guidelin sai.

the law also protect those who us "someth to hand" as a weapon. the leaflet, publish by polic and prosecutor, aim to combat confus about current legisl, which let peopl us "reason forc". the guidanc, relat to england and wale, follow a recent decis by minist not to chang the law. do what you "honestli and instinct" believ wa necessari would be the strongest evid of act lawfulli, the guidanc said.

and the law protect those who us "someth to hand" as a weapon, said the leaflet publish jointli by the crown prosecut servic (cp) and associ of chief polic offic (acpo).

as a gener rule, the more extrem the circumst and fear felt, the more forc can be us lawfulli in self-defenc, it said, ad that household do not have to wait to be attack befor defend themselv. but knock someon unconsci then kill them or hurt them further, or set a trap for an intrud without involv the polic were given as exampl of "excess and gratuit" forc. the tori have call for a chang in the law so household ar onli prosecut if thei us "grossli disproportion" forc. their demand have been back by former metropolitan polic commission sir john steven. tori frontbench patrick mercer is now pursu the propos through a privat member's bill in parliament.

the govern instead mount a public campaign to clear up public uncertainti after a review conclud no law chang wa necessari. home secretari charl clark said: "i believ in that old adag 'an englishman's home is hi castl'. that's exactli what should be the case and i believ the current law provid that." an "inform trawl" of cp record found 11 peopl had been prosecut after attack intrud in the past 15 year, five of whom were convict. thei includ a man who laid in wait for a burglar on commerci premis in cheshir, befor beat him up, throw him into a pit and set him on fire.

a cp spokesperson said the figur were not definit becaus prosecut ar not list accord to whether thei were commit by a household on an intrud. in on of britain's highest profil case, norfolk farmer toni martin wa jail for life for murder 16-year-old burglar fred barra, in 1999. the convict wa later reduc to manslaught on appeal and the sentenc cut to five year. mr martin wa freed from prison in juli 2003. the guidanc publish on tuesdai, said the polic had a duti to investig all incid involv a death or injuri. in case involv household attack intrud prosecutor and polic were "determin" thei would be dealt with "as swiftli and as sympathet as possibl", it said.
