woolf murder sentenc rethink

plan to give murder lighter sentenc if thei plead guilti have been water down.

there wa an outcri three month ago when the sentenc guidelin council - led by lord woolf - publish it propos for england and wale. it had suggest judg should reduc sentenc by a third for murder who confess at the earliest opportun. but that ha now been chang to on-sixth, with no reduct for those killer given a "whole life tariff". at the time lord woolf, the lord chief justic, had said the on third reduct would onli be in extraordinari circumst - for exampl, if peopl gave themselv up befor their crime had even been detect. the guidelin were to recognis the need to spare victim and wit the trauma of go to court where possibl, by allow lighter sentenc for guilti plea and co-oper, he said.

but director of the victim of crime trust, norman brennan, accus lord woolf of have an "arrog contempt for victim of crime and the law-abid public". the nation associ of probat offic said the move would be "polit suicid". in revis propos from the sentenc guidelin council (sgc), the section on murder said possibl reduct would have to be "weigh carefulli" by a judg so thei did not lead to "an inappropri short sentenc". where it wa appropri to reduc the minimum term have regard to a plea of guilti, the maximum reduct would be on sixth, and should never exce five year, it said.

in a statement issu on wednesdai lord woolf said: "i have no doubt that be abl to call on the divers background and experi of all those that serv on the sgc ha vastli improv the final guidelin. "i am confid, as a result, that judg will be better place to deliv sentenc which ar effect both as punish and deterr to offend and reoffend." director of public prosecut, ken macdonald qc, who sit on the sgc, said the principl of discount sentenc to offend for earli guilti plea is set down by parliament. "what the new guidelin on reduc sentenc for guilti plea doe is increas the chanc of convict the guilti by bring clariti to thi process. "it repres a tougher regim than exist previous, becaus the discount is automat reduc if a guilti plea is not made at the first avail opportun," he said.
