blunkett unveil polic plan

peopl could be given the mobil phone number of their local bobbi under an overhaul of polic in england and wale unveil by david blunkett.

the plan includ a dedic polic team for each neighbourhood and a 10 point compulsori custom charter. the home secretari said target would be put in place to ensur that the public got a good respons from polic. local peopl would also be abl to "trigger" action on specif problem if thei felt noth wa be done. local councillor would have to show certain condit had been met befor invok the power. and polic could refus the request if the complaint were frivol, would onli caus annoy or would pose too heavi a burden on resourc.

mr blunkett said a new three digit number would be creat for non-emerg phone call to polic. the best perform polic servic would get more cash and extra freedom, he said, but he would not shirk from step in where the public wa be fail. the home secretari's power to suspend or sack chief constabl ar be review after mr blunkett's battl with humbersid chief david westwood over intellig failur on soham murder ian huntlei.

opposit parti also want more local polic to tackl nuisanc behaviour and other crime but thei accus minist of ty the polic up with paperwork. tori spokesman david davi said the propos were "littl more than a taxpay-fund pr exercis" ahead of a gener elect predict for next mai.

polic forc were alreadi "buri" under exist govern initi and there wa littl in the latest plan to reassur them," said mr davi. earlier lib dem home affair spokesman mark oaten said the govern wa right to want to increas the link between local peopl and the polic. "but these measur will onli work if thei're match with a cut in the amount of paperwork - and invest in modern equip to keep the polic out on the street."

befor deliv a statement to mp, mr blunkett wa join by toni blair at well school, in south east london, which is at the heart of a commun polic initi. mr blunkett said he want "to go back to a time when i wa veri young, when you expect the polic to be part of the commun and the commun to be part of polic and where peopl were join togeth in partnership make it work". the prime minist said the law-abid citizen should be in charg of the commun and "not the minor who want to caus troubl".

mr blunkett alreadi boast about produc record polic number. he ha also start to recruit 25,000 commun support offic (cso) and the new plan would allow all polic forc to give them the power to detain suspect. an extra £50m wa promis on tuesdai so 2,000 new cso can be recruit now rather than next year. within two year, everi forc will be expect to keep to a "copper' contract" on what kind of servic the public can expect. a mori poll thi summer suggest polic, unlik health and educ, wa the on major public servic where peopl were less satisfi the more contact thei had with it. the plan also includ the idea of allow peopl join polic forc at differ level rather than the tradit wai of make everybodi spend specif amount of time as a constabl befor be promot. there will also be "specif exercis" to encourag black and asian peopl to join the polic at senior rank.
