row over 'polic' power for cso

the polic feder ha said it strongli oppos give commun support offic (cso) the power to detain suspect for up to 30 minut.

the power - pilot in six area - were extend to all polic forc in england and wale on thursdai. the feder said cso do not have the experi, train and safeti equip to deal with "potenti confront" situat. but the govern said the move would help polic "build safe commun". polic feder chairman jan berri said civilian offic should act as "ey and ear" for the polic.

"thei should not be place in potenti confront situat - which detain someon clearli is," she said. cso can now us reason forc to detain suspect for up to 30 minut while thei wait for polic offic to arriv. the power will be grant by chief constabl of local forc. ms berri said thi "dramat chang" their origin purpos - to be a visibl presenc combat low-level crime and anti-social behaviour. she said more power would mean more paperwork and less time on the street.

but home offic minist hazel blear defend the move sai it would give the civilian offic "just that littl bit of edg". she deni their role wa chang and said the new power would not take them awai from the street.

"the power that we ar bring in ar thing that thei need to do when thei ar out patrol," she said. the home offic ha produc it own report on cso which it describ as "encourag". ms blear said the studi show cso ar "make a real differ" in the fight against crime. but the report also show that the public is have difficulti distinguish between a civilian offic and a proper offic.

shadow home secretari david davi said the research appear to acknowledg that cso were have no discern effect on crime figur.

"while the answer is a lot more real polic, the govern want to recruit 25,000 peopl who can't arrest anyon," he said. bbc home affair correspond danni shaw said the research is inconclus. there ar about 3,500 cso in england and wale but the govern intend to have 25,000 on the street by 2008 at a cost of £50m. thei alreadi have power to hand out fine for a wide rang of offenc. the seriou organis crime and polic bill propos extra power to search suspect, enforc licens offenc, direct traffic and deter beg.
