council prepar to set tax rise

council tax in scotland is set to rise by an averag of about 4% in the come year, bbc scotland ha learn.

author will decid final figur on thursdai when project increas will be more than twice the rate of inflat, which is current 1.6%. the financ minist ha urg council to limit increas but thei have warn that thei will struggl to maintain servic unless fund is increas. thei sai much addit govern monei is for new initi. scottish financ minist, tom mccabe msp, said: "last week in parliament i announc an addit £419m for core expenditur to local govern in scotland. "that's a 5.5% increas and sit against an inflat rate of 1.6%, so i think we have quit rightli said to council thi year that we would at the veri least ask them to exercis restraint." mr mccabe is also look for local author to becom more effici and save monei in come year. he told bbc radio scotland's sundai live programm: "here in scotland we have 32 council who all have their own individu collect system for council tax, thei have their own payrol system and their own human resourc system.

"we think there ha to be opportun there for rationalis and us the monei save to reinvest in frontlin servic." the council' umbrella organis cosla, which provid bbc scotland with the indic figur for next year, warn that council would face a continu struggl to maintain servic. mr mccabe ha promis them about £8.1bn next year. "howev, most of the increas is target to new initi and council will experi difficulti in maintain core servic," a cosla spokesman said. cosla sai that it is will to work with the execut on find effici save but that these will not be enough to maintain servic. thei sai the fund plan for the next three year will see council lose more of the share of public spend. the conserv accus the scottish execut of us the council tax to rais fund becaus it is too afraid to rais incom tax.

the tori financ spokesman, brian monteith msp, said: "it a form of disguis... yet again we see that council tax is be us as a wai of pass on cost. "scare of actual us it three penc incom tax that it could put up, what we've seen over the year is more and more burden be put onto local author and the council tax payer have to pick up the bill." there ar also warn that unless fund to council is increas in the next few year then servic mai have to be reduc. linda knox, director of the scottish local author manag centr at strathclyd univers, said: "with thi current settlement the increas is slow. at the same time, the burden on council ar greater than thei were. "the settlement figur don't includ pai increas and the execut is also requir a substanti figur - in the area of £325m - in effici save across the settlement period." educ will be protect from ani cut but linda knox sai thi will mean other servic will suffer. she said: "in practic, that will mean a 4-5% cut for other servic. on the face of it the settlement look like an increas of about 9.7% but by the time you take into account other factor it probabl onli about 1% in real term."
