whitehal shred increas - tori

civil servant have drastic step up the shred of offici document, figur compil by the tori suggest.

some govern depart had doubl the number of document be shred ahead of the freedom of inform act's implement on 1 januari. depart for defenc, environ and trade, which had all increas file destruct, said thei were follow rule govern public record. but the tori want the inform commission to investig. the freedom of inform act will for the first time give member of the public access to govern record previous kept secret for 30 year. but bbc polit correspond jame hardi said the prospect of outsid poke their nose into the inner work of whitehal appear to be caus jitter among the mandarin.

liber democrat alan beith - who chair the select committe which monitor the depart of constitut affair - said if the claim were true, whitehal wa "act entir against the spirit of the new act". "both the inform commission and the select committe will have to keep thi issu under veri close scrutini." fellow lib dem norman baker said the episod paint an "unflatt pictur of the inner work of govern". "it is clear that the govern's initi enthusiasm for open govern ha turn to self-serv cynic." dr julian lewi, the conserv spokesman for the cabinet offic, said he had discov a huge acceler in shred from a seri of parliamentari answer.

the depart of work and pension destroi nearli 37,000 file last year - up 22,000 on four year ago when the act wa pass. the number of file destroi by the ministri of defenc and the depart of environ, food and rural affair and trade and industri ha also risen dramat. dr lewi ha call for an investig by the inform commission richard thoma. earlier thi week, mr thoma said he wa look into cabinet offic order tell staff to delet e-mail more than three month old. he said he "total condemn" the delet of e-mail to prevent their disclosur under freedom of inform law come into forc on 1 januari.

govern guidanc said e-mail should onli be delet if thei serv "no current purpos", mr thoma said. a cabinet offic spokeswoman said the move wa not about the new law or "the destruct of import record". the freedom of inform act will cover england, wale and northern ireland from next year. similar measur ar be brought in at the same time in scotland. it provid the public with a right of access to inform held by about 100,000 public bodi, subject to variou exempt.
