research fear over kelli's view

scientist have express concern that new educ secretari ruth kelli's religi view could hamper vital scientif research.

ms kelli, who is cathol, is report to be "pro-life" and ha oppos embryo research. medic research council professor nanci rothwel said ms kelli's view matter as she wa respons for train futur scientist. the depart for educ and skill would not comment on the concern.

a spokeswoman said: "it is not new that ms kelli is a cathol but we ar not go into ani detail on thi." but she ad that claim ms kelli wa in charg of a £1bn univers research budget were not true. it wa down to the higher educ fund council and the research council to decid on univers' research alloc. british law is open to the clone of human embryo to creat stem cell, master cell that can develop into all the bodi's tissu type. thi clone activ is not permit for reproduct purpos - onli for research into new diseas treatment. howev, it is controversi becaus it involv the destruct of embryo.

professor rothwel, who is also vice-presid of research at manchest univers, told the time higher educ supplement it would worri her "a great deal" if minist were anti-stem cell. she said: "the view of minist in the dfe do matter as thei ar respons for train the next gener of scientist. "you can't have a higher educ polici that is at odd with the govern's scienc polici." head of development genet at the nation institut of medic research, professor robin lovel-badg, said he had wit the confus situat in the us where mani religi group oppos the practic. he said: "if someon as senior as ruth kelli is not go to favour stem cell research we will end up with a similarli schizophren system in thi countri. it is veri worri." but fertil expert lord winston said he thought it wa "rather good" minist held ethic view. concern have also been rais by "pro-choic" organis that ms kelli's view might affect sex educ polici in school.

famili plan associ chief execut, ann weyman, said teach pupil about contracept and abort were kei. "young peopl must be inform about all the issu within sexual health, which includ contracept and abort. "i think it is veri import that the govern maintain it commit to the teenag pregnanc strategi." current, individu school devis their own sex educ polici base on a framework provid by the dfe. ms kelli ha not set out her detail view on either issu yet, but ha said she intend to put parent first in educ polici. thi would includ the qualiti of teach, classroom disciplin and academ standard in school, she said.
