armi chief in regiment decis

militari chief ar expect to meet to make a final decis on the futur of scotland's armi regiment.

a committe of the armi board, which is made up of the most senior defenc figur, will discuss plan for restructur regiment on mondai. the propos includ cut scotland's six singl-battalion regiment to five and merg these into a super regiment. the plan have face stiff opposit from campaign and politician alik. the committe's decis must be ratifi by defenc secretari geoff hoon and prime minist toni blair. it is expect that it will be made public next week. when minist announc a reorganis of the armi it drew a question mark over the futur of the black watch, the king own scottish border, the royal scot, the royal highland fusili and the argyl and sutherland highland. in octob, the council of scottish colonel propos the merger of the royal scot and the king's own scottish border into a singl battalion.

under their vision, it would be on of five in the new super regiment. the propos to either merg or amalgam the six regiment into a super regiment spark a polit outcri, with labour backbench and opposit politician oppos the plan. thei felt the time wa insensit becaus the black watch wa in the frontlin in iraq, suffer casualti. the save the scottish regiment campaign were so anger thei threaten to stand against labour at the next gener elect.

speak ahead of the expect armi board meet, a spokesman said: "the govern and the armi board have spent the past four month attempt to trick serv soldier and the public into think their plan chang for the scottish regiment ar for the good of the armi and for that of the serv soldier. "thei ar veri much not for the good and will destroi scotland's regiment by mould them into a singl super regiment which will lead to sever recruit problem, a loss of local connect to those regiment and a loss to scotland of an import part of her heritag and, most importantli, her futur - the regiment ar the envi of armi around the world." an altern blueprint had been put forward by labour mp eric joyc, who propos go ahead with the merger while preserv the other regiment. for a brief time, there wa specul the prime minist might consid the plan, but that now seem unlik. speak in scotland last week, mr blair said the aim wa to preserv tradit but introduc a more effect structur and hint that a super regiment wa like. he said: "thei don't want to get rid of the histori or the tradit of the regiment or the local connect - far from it, all thei want to do is make sure thei can transfer peopl easili across regiment and deploi them more flexibl." the prime minist said he hope campaign' concern would be taken into account but the need for effect chang had to be paramount.
