student 'inequ' expos

teenag from well-off background ar six time more like to go to univers than those from the most depriv area, a report sai.

the higher educ fund council for england said more peopl went to univers between 1994 and 2000. but the percentag of poorer student "hardli chang at all", said it chief execut, sir howard newbi. increasingli more women than men went to univers, while tuition fee and student loan made no major differ.

the hefc report, draw on child benefit data, said teenag in the richest area could expect a better than 50% chanc of go to univers, while in the poorest neighbourhood it wa 10%. particip at constitu level rang from 69% in kensington and chelsea, 65% in the citi of london and westminst and 62% in sheffield hallam, down to 10% in bristol south and leed central and 8% in nottingham north and sheffield brightsid.

sir howard said the report highlight the "entrench divis" between rich and poor area, but ad it wa a social as much as an educ problem. he told bbc new: "we know, onc children from depriv background get into univers, thei do veri well. in fact surprisingli more go into postgradu studi than those from more affluent background. "the issu is, i think, on of rais aspir amongst those famili and those commun that univers is someth for them and not for other peopl."

he said by the time univers tradition dealt with pupil, between the ag of 16 and 18, it wa too late. instead thei should be reach out to commun and school much earlier, even down to primari school level, to persuad them a univers educ wa someth thei could aspir to, he said. but while the report reveal stark inequ and expos the extent of the challeng, there were some encourag find, he ad.

tuition fee and student loan in england and wale - and the differ fee regim in scotland - did not seem to have affect the choic of young peopl, even the poorest. the report also show women were 18% more like than men to enter higher educ in 2000 - up from 6% in 1994. in the poorest area, the gap wa 30% in women's favour and grow faster than anywher els. the higher educ minist, kim howel, said: "we ar work in school to rais the attain and aspir of young peopl in disadvantag area." higher standard in school would lead to greater particip in higher educ. from 2006 upfront tuition fee in england would be remov, with grant for the less well off. the shadow educ secretari, tim collin, said: "it is clear from thi report that children from disadvantag area ar far more like to have encount poor standard in their secondari educ. "tackl these must be the top prioriti for ani govern look to improv univers access." the group which repres univers vice-chancellor, univers uk, said the new system of defer fee in england, due to start in 2006, with grant and bursari for poorer student, would encourag more of them to go into higher educ. the nation union of student argu the opposit - that the situat wa "like to get much wors, with poorer student be restrict in choic and have to make decis base on their financi situat rather than aspir".

the tabl below show the particip rate for each parliamentari constitu in britain:
