what the elect should realli be about?

a gener elect is the best chanc most pressur group get to make a real impact on govern polici. here is how six lead lobbi plan to make sure their caus is be debat ahead of an expect spring poll.

we've call for the state pension to be increas from £79.60 to the pension credit guarante level of £105.45. that's what we're call for. mani pension ar disadvantag by the current system. if we've got on in five pension below the poverti line, we've got to make it more gener or have these peopl live in poverti.

we've drawn up a pension' manifesto. thi will be sent to each of the candid in the 659 constitu. thei will be ask which of the top five issu, includ the pension issu, thei would support. onc we've got their respons we will publish the result within the constitu and nation as well. it's our wai of put the politician on notic. we ar try to get across the fact that there ar 11m voter over 60 in the countri, thei ar more like to vote than other section of societi and thirdli thei ar true swing voter. befor 1997 most pension vote conserv. in 1997 and 2001 thei vote labour. but there is no guarante thei will vote for a labour govern thi time around. thei cannot take that vote for grant.

pension gener will certainli be a big elect issu even though the govern ha postpon the public of adair turner's full report into the issu. he said the uk had on of the least gener pension system in the develop world.

that the govern take serious the impact of aviat on the environ.

we haven't work out specif plan but i imagin we will lobbi polit parti and incumb mp. variou local group will do that in their particular area and we will provid a nation brief. we don't have ani larg demonstr plan but thei can't be rule out.

it is hard to sai whether we will be success. we have got the issu in the public conscious to an extent, but it is difficult to sai whether an elect will rais it import in the public mind or whether it will be push out by big issu like iraq.

repeal the hunt bill.

we ar challeng the us of the parliament act 1949 in a high court action. we ar hope to hear in the new year. whichev wai the court rule the other side will appeal so we expect it to fall plumb in election time. when the ban come into forc on 18 februari we will be go to the european court becaus no compens is be paid. so there's a lot of legal territori to go. we ar try to engag with the minist by demonstr and talk. whatev intellig we get we will try to turn up and speak to whoever it is. (rural affair minist) alun michael ha avoid us and cancel engag so that make it difficult. it is not intimidatori - on the whole it is group of angri housew. of cours there is an element of shout becaus peopl ar angri but there is no violenc becaus that doe not achiev anyth.

it will fall plumb in the run up to the most import gener elect toni blair will ever face. it's exactli what the prime minist did not want. he want the issu off the tabl until after the elect.

peopl us live anim as target for sport both here and abroad. the reason for includ abroad is becaus of trophi hunt. it is anoth sort of form of shoot for sport. the principl is the same whether it's a tiger or a pheasant.

we will wide publicis what's happen in relat to trophi hunt. we will publicis the darker aspect of the target anim industri the uk. we will seek to get pledg from individu mp and would-be mp sai that thei ar against the us of anim as target for sport. we would like the support of polit parti but i think a gener elect is veri much to do with pledg mp make to their elector. with hunt we had mani mp who were happi to sai thei were against it.

i think what we will get is a veri real climb up the agenda. whether or not we will get a ban i am not sure. but it will mobilis public opinion. everyth we do will reduc anim suffer and in time that will lead to a ban.

the issu that we think is the most import for thi elect is choic. the languag of consumer is veri commonplac in govern and across the polit spectrum. choic as an ideolog is begin to be the privatis of thi decad. it's becom an issu in itself but what's realli miss from the debat is the consum's choic in that. choic is not choic at all if all you have to choos from is two fail school. we have seen so mani pension mi-sell scandal and in the pension industri there's a maximum of choic but a minimum qualiti in that. we want choic on the consum's term - that mean clear and access inform to oper that choic.

firstli, we have our websit. it featur our campaign and chang everi dai. secondli through our 700,000 member who commun with us. thirdli through the media and also what we will be do is hold a pre-elect confer. we will invit the opinion former, mp, journalist and other. the idea is that we open up commun between member of the public and the politician.

i think we will be success. it's veri much the languag be us by the main polit parti. politician on all side ar veri sensit to thi issu thei want to be seen to be respond to thi issu.

fuel duti is a larg part of oper cost for road haulag worker. we have been hear about thi propos increas of 1.92p per litr that gordon brown ha been postpon and postpon. tuppenc doe not sound like a great deal but everi year if you oper on vehicl that's an increas of about £750. if you're run 10 vehicl it's obvious 10 time that.

if fuel duti doe rise we will be absolut horrifi. there will be a huge effect throughout the industri and i would not be surpris if you see widespread demonstr. what it will mean is there will be a number of firm go out of busi.

we will continu to do what we have alwai done we keep the issu in the trade press. regrett it's on of those stori that it is get harder to get into the nation press. whatev we do, the public don't like lorri - thei see us as a complain minor. but thei don't realis that when you see a car on the road it is probabl go to work, when you see a lorri it's alreadi at work.
