brown and blair face new rift claim

for the umpteenth time, toni blair and gordon brown ar said to have declar all out war on each other.

thi time the alleg rift is over who should take the credit for the govern's global aid and debt initi, particularli in the wake of the tsunami disast - an issu mani hope and believ wa abov such thing. it domin the prime minist's monthli new confer, which saw mr blair start in full irrit mode as he wa forc to bat awai question after question about hi relationship with hi neighbour. as he told journalist: "i am not interest in what goe in and out of newspap. there is a complet uniti of purpos." and he again heap prais on mr brown sai he wa do a great job, and would continu do it - although he would not commit to ani job for mr brown after the elect.

so why did he arrang hi press confer at the last moment so it coincid with mr brown's long-arrang keynot speech on aid and debt, he wa ask? by now mr blair had move from irrit mode to hi bare disguis furi set. he snap back that the hack knew veri well what the oper reason were for the time of hi press confer. well, not realli, as it happen.

and he repeat what a great man gordon wa and how unit thei were, befor again sneer that he took absolut no notic of what went in and out of the newspap, prefer to get on with the job of do the best for the countri and the world. although in the next breath he declar: "i get increasingli alarm by what i read in the newspap" befor catch himself on and quickli ad: "in so far as i read them of cours." he probabl had good reason to be alarm becaus the newspap had been full of stori about the claim open warfar between the two men.

as far as the time of the prime minist's press confer is concern, there ar two option. the first is that it wa a calcul attempt to upstag the chancellor and seiz back the initi on the big issu of the moment. if that is the case it suggest that even the fear of serious neg newspap headlin is not enough to stop the squabbl. the second option is that it wa an unavoid coincid, which would suggest the govern ha lost it onc-fame abil to strictli co-ordin announc - through the infam down street grid - to avert just such alleg.

either wai, the effect wa the same - to overshadow the big announc of govern polici on a huge pertin issu. and there had been previou suggest that the new year had start with a fresh outbreak of the warfar between the two men. firstli, the prime minist insist on wednesdai that he had been intim involv in the develop of the propos to get g8 countri to freez debt repay from the tsunami-hit countri. it wa claim he had been embarrass by the fact that gordon brown appear to have taken the initi over the govern's respons to the disast while mr blair wa still on holidai in egypt.

then, as if to pour fuel on the flame, both men separ spoke about work on tsunami or wider aid and develop polici with their cabinet colleagu foreign secretari jack straw, aid minist hilari benn and deputi prime minist john prescott - without mention the other. all thi came amid fresh claim that mr brown wa still seeth that he had been exclud from a promin role in gener elect plan and had, as a result, start to set out hi own platform. the fact that he us an articl in the guardian newspap to set out what he believ "should" be in the manifesto, ha embark on a mini tour of britain to set out hi aid plan and will next week visit africa on the same mission - often seen as the prime minist's "turf" - ha onli ad to the impress of rival camp oper entir independ of each other. the prime minist deni all that as well, repeat hi insist that it wa inconceiv the economi and the chancellor would not be at the centr of the elect campaign. but the big fear with mani on the labour bench now is that, unless a lid can be put on the specul over the rivalri, it mai even threaten to undermin the elect campaign itself.
