blair 'said he would stand down'

toni blair promis gordon brown he would stand down befor the next elect, a new book about the chancellor claim.

but the prime minist chang hi mind follow intervent from alli in the cabinet, accord to the book. the book by sundai telegraph journalist robert peston said the pair had "mutual animos and contempt" for each other. the book, brown's britain, said toni blair felt by novemb 2003 he had lost voter' trust.

the author's sourc, all unnam "alli" of mr blair and mr brown, said the prime minist felt the iraq war had undermin him and that he wa no longer an asset to the labour parti.

the book, serialis in the sundai telegraph, alleg that mr blair told the chancellor at a dinner host by deputi pm john prescott in novemb 2003 of hi intent to stand down. "at that stage he saw gordon brown and said, 'look you ar the next most influenti member of the govern, i need your help to get through the next year," mr peston said. "i myself recognis that i'm go to have to stand down befor the elect but help me to get through the year and i will then stand down.'" but he chang hi mind in june 2004, follow intervent from alli in the cabinet and the suspicion that the chancellor wa deliber manoeuvr against him, the book claim.

mr peston told bbc new: "my understand is that thei ar not nearli as close or as friendli as thei onc were. "what the book sai is there now a pretti profound mutual mistrust, mutual animos. "i think in public you see thi doubl act pretend everyth is alright but in privat i don't think the relationship is good becaus brown, understand, feel deepli betrai - particularli over thi issu of the leadership." there ha been fresh specul of a rift recent, follow their separ respons to the asian tsunami. rumour of a rift were fuell by the sudden decis to hold mr blair's monthli media confer at the same time as a long-plan speech by mr brown on uk plan to tackl global poverti with a new "marshal plan" for africa. there wa specul the pair were try to outdo each other's respons to the disast.

former welfar minist frank field mp criticis the report rivalri between the pair on gmtv's sundai programm.

"what sort of model doe it give to the nation when the two most import polit leader do noth but fight it out togeth or us their aid to fight it out?" the labour mp for birkenhead ask. he said the prime minist should sack mr brown, but did not believ mr blair wa strong enough to do so. conserv polici co-ordin david cameron, mp for witnei, ad: "if it wasn't so seriou it would be funni. "but it is seriou - you've got the two most senior peopl in the govern not concentr on fight crime, poverti or dirti hospit - thei ar fight each other." carol walker, bbc new 24 polit correspond, ad: "there is a real concern that thi could undermin the gener elect campaign. "and clearli it is veri bad new for the govern at a time when it is try to explain what it is do to respond to the terribl problem thrown up by the tsunami disast."
