could rivalri overshadow elect?

toni blair and gordon brown ar desper try to stuff the geni of their rivalri back into the bottl.

along with ani number of senior cabinet colleagu, thei ar insist their onli job is to win the next elect and govern in the best interest of britain. it is a messag thei ar aim directli at their backbench who ar becom irrit and even unnerv by the continu claim and counter claim surround thi alleg rift. ian gibson, for exampl, urg the two men to stop squabbl, declar: "for good sake, sometim you have to rise abov petul and make sure that you do your job as effect as you can." those with slim major ar particularli fear that the rift could hit their own hope of re-elect. toni blair will seek to reassur labour mp on mondai even at their first meet of the new year at westminst - a behind-close door meet which gordon brown is thought like to also attend to show uniti.

meanwhil the like of health secretari john reid and labour peer lord haskin ar warn of the elector danger of allow thi soap opera to continu. and thei have both warn the rival camp to stop spread the poison. lord haskin even suggest mr blair should reinstat mr brown as the central figur in the elect plan.

but thi particular geni is unusu reluct to return to captiv and mani fear it is simpli too late to repair the damag. thei believ thei will be fight the next elect with the sound of open warfar between the two men ring in their ear. and it matter littl whether the rift is real or, as some try to suggest, simpli the product of newspap headlin and westminst gossip. few in westminst actual believ that, simpli becaus the evid appear to contradict it.

for exampl, the weekend's attempt by both men to plai down the divis fail to do the trick. even as thei were both insist on their uniti of purpos and claim thei would not be swai by newspap stori, thei still manag to stir the specul with their comment.

mr blair talk about the "new" labour manifesto - a move which seem calcul to irrit the chancellor, who ha long reject the label. and mr brown pointedli refus to deni claim the prime minist had reneg on a deal to hand him the premiership last year. that claim wa repeat in robert peston's book, a book which ampli demonstr thi corros down street soap opera is nowher near it final act.

for hi part, mr brown insist hi onli motiv wa to get labour re-elect.

the troubl is, both men have fallen short of offer simpl, straightforward denial of the central claim. so thei have both been accus of actual make matter wors by feed the specul with their own behaviour. the first thing to be said is that these suggest have not come from nowher. thei start with and ar sustain by "friend" of the two men. on onli had to listen to the chancellor's friend and former spin chief charli whelan last week to understand that there is a real anger from thi camp at the prime minist's appar attempt to confound mr brown's leadership ambit. but it is not just public pronounc from ex-aid.

there ar whisper brief to select journalist from both side. it is no secret in westminst, for exampl, that down street believ the chancellor is indulg in a mammoth sulk and act in a petti and deliber provoc manner.

then there ar the action of the men themselv. gordon brown set out what is seen as a rival manifesto then appear to embark on hi own person campaign. the prime minist respond by schedul hi monthli press confer to clash with a keynot speech by the chancellor. meanwhil larg number of backbench mp insist voter ar either entir uninterest in the chatter, which thei believ is a media-onli obsess, or that thei fear for the effici run of a govern beset by such rivalri. either wai, there is univers agreement that if thi goe on through the gener elect it can onli do the labour parti seriou damag. there ar sign that the two men appreci the danger and both want to put a lid on all the specul. but with probabl onli four month to the next elect, that look like be a particularli difficult trick to pull off.
