brown in appeal for labour uniti

gordon brown ha made an appeal for uniti after report claim mr blair went back on a pledg to stand down befor the next gener elect.

the chancellor would not comment on the report, but insist he would not be "divert or distract" from tackl the challeng face by the countri. hi onli "motiv" wa to ensur labour wa re-elect, he insist. mr blair earlier dismiss the claim he had reneg on a promis to stand asid for gordon brown as old new. accord to a new book, brown's britain by sundai telegraph journalist robert peston, mr blair went back on a pledg to make wai for mr brown after cabinet alli interven in june 2004.

in an interview with bbc on's breakfast with frost, mr blair said: "i've dealt with thi six month ago. i said then you don't do deal over job like thi - you don't. "what both of us ar actual concentr on ar the issu that concern the countri."

in a separ interview with bbc polit editor andrew marr, mr brown said: "it's veri import that we all do what we can in a unifi wai to ensur the elect of a labour govern. "i think it is veri import to stress that that is the motiv that i have. "that is my purpos in polit, and that is what everi dai i seek to do. and i am not go to be divert or distract, nor is toni blair, by newspap stori or book or rumour or gossip. "the onli reason why we ar in govern is to get on with the job in a unifi wai to deal with the challeng face thi countri." mr brown also said he had discuss the gener elect campaign with the prime minist on saturdai and pledg to plai hi part as he had been ask to do.

but mr peston said the pair had "mutual animos and contempt" for each other and that mr blair had decid in novemb 2003 he would quit becaus he felt he had lost voter' trust becaus of the iraq war. he then chang hi mind in june 2004, follow intervent from alli in the cabinet and the suspicion that the chancellor wa deliber manoeuvr against him, accord to the book. andrew marr said: "thi is enorm damag. gordon brown know it as well as toni blair. "i think the relationship is genuin, privat, veri poor inde. thing ar veri difficult." he ad: "lot of minist believ toni blair will attempt to move gordon brown out of the treasuri after the elect. "that depend on whether there's still a labour govern and their major."

senior mp ar expect to rais concern about the latest report of infight at the regular meet of labour backbench on mondai.

health secretari john reid said those fuell such report were damag labour's re-elect chanc and would not be easili forgiven. fresh specul of a rift recent follow mr blair and mr brown's separ respons to the asian tsunami. these rumour were fuell by mr blair's decis to hold hi monthli media confer at the same time as a long-plan speech by mr brown on uk plan to tackl global poverti with a new "marshal plan" for africa. there wa specul the pair were try to outdo each other's respons to the disast. but the prime minist said he had discuss these claim with the chancellor and dismiss them as a "load of nonsens". tori leader michael howard accus the prime minist and mr brown of"squabbl like schoolboi". liber democrat parliamentari chairman matthew taylor said the person ambit of mr blair and mr brown wa "get in the wai of good govern".
