blair pledg uniti to labour mp

toni blair ha sought to reassur labour backbench that noth will stand in the wai of the parti's bid for a third term in power.

mr blair wa speak to mp amid fresh rumour of a rift with gordon brown. a new book sai the prime minist went back on a pledg to mr brown to stand down befor the next gener elect. the chancellor ha said he is focus on win the poll and is due to join elect supremo alan milburn for a labour poster launch thi week. mr blair told the parliamentari labour parti (plp) on mondai: "i know from everyon here, in cabinet and govern, noth is go to get in the wai of a unifi labour parti with a unifi posit and win the third term peopl desper need." the prime minist and hi chancellor arriv within second of each other and seemingli in good spirit at the start of the meet which last around an hour. a new book, brown's britain by sundai telegraph journalist robert peston, sai mr blair went back on a pledg to make wai for mr brown after cabinet alli interven in june 2004.

it ha caus a new wave of concern among labour mp gear up to defend their seat in an elect, wide expect to be held in mai, and sever member ar understood to have line up to express their discont at the plp meet. health secretari john reid earlier warn that labour member would not easili forgiv anybodi fuell damag specul. he told bbc new: "those who co-oper or inspir these book, in my view, have to know that, whatev the short-term polit or person advantag that thei think thei might secur, thei alwai do it by damag the record, the uniti and the re-elect chanc of the labour parti and the govern." mr blair on sundai dismiss claim of broken promis, sai: "i've dealt with thi six month ago. i said then you don't do deal over job like thi - you don't."

in a separ bbc interview, mr brown said he and the prime minist would not be distract by "gossip". "it's veri import that we all do what we can in a unifi wai to ensur the elect of a labour govern," he said.

on mondai, mr blair's spokesman said: "the prime minist is determin that he will get on with the busi of govern becaus he believ that what peopl want." mr brown sai he discuss the elect campaign with mr blair on saturdai and promis to plai hi part.

mr peston said the pair had "mutual animos and contempt". mr blair had decid in novemb 2003 he would quit becaus he felt he had lost voter' trust becaus of the iraq war.

he had then chang hi mind in june 2004, follow intervent from cabinet alli and suspicion that the chancellor wa manoeuvr against him. mr brown allegedli said he could no longer believ anyth mr blair told him. conserv co-chairman liam fox liken the two men to "self-obsess schoolboi". liber democrat parliamentari chairman matthew taylor said their person ambit wa "get in the wai of good govern". ex-labour leader neil kinnock said mr blair and mr brown could onli deal with the media frenzi by continu to sai thei would not allow a row to damag labour or british interest. he told bbc radio five live that mr brown would never encourag ani kind of insurrect or coup.
