blair and brown criticis by mp

labour mp have angrili criticis toni blair and gordon brown amid renew report of a rift between the two men.

a meet of the parliamentari labour parti saw a success of normal loyal member warn that feud could jeopardis labour's elect hope. the pm insist noth would derail labour's campaign, despit a new book sai he ha upset hi chancellor by back out of a pledg to stand asid. mr brown will again be in the public ey at the parti's new poster launch. in what the parti had hope would be perceiv as a show of uniti, he is due to line up alongsid alan milburn - the man controversi appoint as the parti's elect supremo - and deputi leader john prescott for the event in london on tuesdai. relat between mr brown and mr milburn ar wide report to be cool ever sinc mr blair brought the latter back into the cabinet to run labour's elect campaign, a role successfulli carri out by mr brown in both 1997 and 2001.

mr blair told the parliamentari labour parti on mondai: "i know from everyon here, in cabinet and govern, noth is go to get in the wai of a unifi labour parti with a unifi posit and win the third term peopl desper need."

the prime minist and hi chancellor arriv within second of each other for the meet of the plp and were seemingli in good spirit as it start. new specul about the state of their relationship wa spark by claim in brown's britain, by sundai telegraph journalist robert peston, which suggest mr blair went back on a pledg to make wai for mr brown. labour's paul flynn said mr blair and mr brown had a "scorch" from mp ad: "it wa a parliamentari labour parti meet like no other."

backbench stephen pound said some mp had threatend to expos those fuell the report if mr blair and mr brown did not "stop thi nonsens, thi poison brief". lord campbel-savour, a former mp, challeng mr brown to deni report that he had told the prime minist he did not believ anyth he said. mr prescott said mp were entitl to complain about disciplin after read recent press report.

"thei told us veri clearli, it wa the troop tell the leader: get in line," he told bbc radio 4's todai on tuesdai. mr prescott said there were occasion disagr in ani govern. but he argu mr blair and mr brown could work successfulli togeth and had produc a strong economi and better public servic.

the new book claim mr prescott host a dinner in novemb 2003 where the prime minist told mr brown he would stand down befor the next elect becaus he had lost trust over the iraq war. he had then chang hi mind in june 2004, follow intervent from cabinet alli and suspicion that the chancellor wa manoeuvr against him, write mr peston. mr prescott said there wa a dinner but the discuss were confidenti. "of cours as a waiter for 10 year i have a profession abil here," he joke. mr blair ha insist he ha done no deal over the premiership while mr brown sai he will not let "gossip" distract him from help a unifi elect campaign. the conserv sai the two men ar behav like squabbl schoolboi and the liber democrat claim person ambit is obstruct good govern.
