labour mp' fear over squabbl

if there is on thing certain to stiffen the spine of labour mp it is the prospect of lose their seat at a gener elect.

and it wa larg that fear that led to toni blair and gordon brown be read the riot act dure a meet of the parliamentari labour parti. the view express by both backbench and labour peer over the claim squabbl between the two men starkli demonstr the wide-held view within the labour parti that the two most power figur in the govern ar jeopardis the next elect. as on huge-disgruntl backbench said befor the meet: "it is time thei realis it's not just my seat thei ar threaten but if thei go on like thi thei could put the elect in doubt." it is a sentiment that is now run throughout the labour bench with mp eager to underlin the messag to their leader to stop the squabbl and get on with the job at hand.

as paul flynn said: "what ha deepli upset the parti is in thi time of all time, when we want to come togeth, we want to lead on the global issu, to chang polit for the next decad, the whole thing wa wreck by a piec of childish by the two main peopl in the parti, two peopl we greatli respect."

stephen pound echo the messag, sai: "we know that the on thing that could entir jeopardis what we ar try to achiev, not for the labour parti but for thi countri, is the appear of divis. we rememb the 1980s". thei back the suggest that unless the squabbl stop, the peopl brief on behalf of the two men would be "name and shame". the dress down appear to have done the trick, with mr brown join hi alleg rival alan milburn - who the prime minist put in charg of elect plan in mr brown's stead - and deputi prime minist john prescott at an elect poster launch. but the effect of all thi is to have achiev two thing. firstli, nobodi is attempt to suggest ani more that the stori of the rift between the chancellor and the prime minist ar fiction creat by the media and author. even mr prescott admit that, had he still been a backbench, he would have been give mr blair and mr brown the same messag.

secondli it ha also underlin the view that the elect campaign ha, to all intent and purpos, kick off. but whether the tell off and the subsequ chang in behaviour by the two men will do ani good - or can even be sustain through the campaign - remain to be seen.

even as the mp were express their fear it emerg that, while mr brown is in africa for a week, the prime minist is to deliv a keynot speech on elect theme for a third term. and he is expect to repeat hi recent insist that the next manifesto will be "new" labour through and through. similarli, some were point out that the chancellor, dure the elect poster launch, onc again refus to deni the claim that he told the prime minist he could never trust anyth he said. none the less, what some believ now is that the effect of the warn from the backbench will actual be to silenc the brown camp, effect strengthen the prime minist's hand. for exampl, will those brownit briefer suggest their man is unhappi at the prime minist's time or subject matter, as mai have been the case in the past? what all seem agre on, howev, is that thi snipe simpli cannot be allow to go on through the elect campaign. mind you, we have heard similar pledg befor.
