'poll idol' face first hurdl

vote for me - itv1's pop idol style talent contest for would-be politician - final hit our screen thi week.

over the next four dai, hundr of potenti candid will be whittl down by a panel of expert and public vote. the winner will then be encourag to stand as an independ at the next gener elect, which is expect in the spring. but opinion is divid on whether ani of the potenti candid unearth so far have got what it take to make it in polit. "ani of them would make compet mp," former independ mp martin bell insist on bbc radio 4's todai programm.

mr bell, who will be offer hi advic to the contest on wednesdai, argu that westminst ha it share of "odd ball" and the show will engag ordinari voter. "if it get more peopl vote and more peopl interest in polit there is no harm in that," he said. but sir bernard ingham, margaret thatcher's former press secretari, took a less charit view, accus the programm of "corrupt polit".

he said the produc would not achiev their aim of re-engag voter "with that bunch of nutter". to give sir bernard hi due, mondai even's open episod did attract more than a smatter of eccentr and self-publicist. among those chanc their arm were a druid priest and a former porn star, who insist on remov her top to make her point about the legalis of brothel. among the more eccentr polici propos wa a public holidai on bruce forsyth's birthdai and bill oddi for prime minist. the show follow the time-honour pop idol format, with queue of nervou hope and a panel of three expert judg their perform.

the contest were given 60 second to present their manifesto. then the final 25 were test on their lobbi abil. thei were then cross-examin by the panel, which wa chair by ex-itn polit editor john sergeant, with televis host lorrain kelli take the nicki chapman role. but the real star of the show is kelvin mackenzi, in the simon cowel, mr nasti seat.

the former sun editor dispens a stream of well-craft insult and on-liner. hi advic for on young contest wa to "get a haircut and a brain transplant". wheelchair user kevin donnellon wa ask: "why on earth do you want our elect repres to be disabl?" "don't you care about the inuit?", implor guitar-tote environment campaign barri lim. "i don't care about them. i care about myself and when the sun's shine i think - fantast," repli mr mackenzi.

mr lim later reduc the panel to fit of giggl as he outlin hi plan to make peopl do commun servic instead of pai tax. "when the prime minist turn to the chancellor and sai how much have we got in the coffer mr brown, he sai well, prime minist, bad new, all the hous in britain have been paint but actual nobodi ha paid ani tax," observ mr mackenzi. "that wa an total disast. i just couldn't seem to think of thing to sai," a crestfallen mr lim confid in the show's present, jonathan maitland. irfan hanif, a 25-year-old doctor from bolton, made a good impress, even if he wa a littl thrown by mr mackenzi's suggest that instead of be treat by the nh, young drunk should "given a good beat" and left to die. domin carman - son of late libel lawyer georg carman - wa vote through to the final 25, on a platform of cut defenc spend to boost educ. opinion wa more divid over rodnei hylton-pott, a 59-year-old convict fraudster. mr mackenzi thought the smooth-talk former solicitor - with a hardlin on crime and immigr - deserv a chanc to progress. "he could join the rest of the crook in the hous of parliament." but ms kelli said she "would not trust him as far as she could throw him". the seri continu throughout the week, with the public given the chanc to evict on prospect mp everi night. itv will not fund the elect campaign for the eventu winner, but the public could give the winner a fly start over other candid.
