labour seek to quell feud talk

labour's leadership put on a show of uniti at a campaign poster launch after mp criticis toni blair and gordon brown over report of their rift.

mr brown wa join at the launch by john prescott and alan milburn, the man controversi put in charg of elect plan by mr blair. a privat meet on mondai saw normal loyal mp warn that feud could jeopardis their elect hope. it follow a new book chart disput between prime minist and chancellor.

the event wa the first time mr milburn ha share a platform with the chancellor sinc take mr brown's tradit poll plan role. but the pair chat amic and mr brown insist he wa happi with hi current campaign task. ask about how he would deal with claim that he did not trust the prime minist, mr brown repli: "you can see that our record on the economi is about the british peopl trust us to run the economi."

he refus to comment on the new book, sai nobodi should be distract from the busi of govern. mr brown later told report: "of cours i trust the prime minist." down street cite that comment when report' suggest mr brown had pointedli fail to deni claim he had onc told mr blair: "there is noth you could ever sai to me now that i could ever believ". labour's new poster sai britain is enjoi the lowest inflat sinc the 1960s, lowest unemploy for 29 year and the lowest mortgag rate for 40 year. thei urg voter not to let the tori take thing backward. mr milburn promis a poll campaign "which is upbeat, confid and abov all els optimist about the futur of our countri".

conserv co-chairman liam fox derid the photo call, sai: "the show of uniti wa the worst act i have seen sinc prison cell block h." labour had broken promis by rais tax 66 time and brought the slowest econom growth in the english-speak world, he said.

the prime minist and chancellor face backbench discont at mondai's meet of the parliamentari labour parti over claim made in journalist robert peston's new book. mr blair told mp and peer: "i know from everyon here, in cabinet and govern, noth is go to get in the wai of a unifi labour parti with a unifi posit and win the third term peopl desper need." labour's paul flynn said the pair had had a "scorch" from mp.

on tuesdai, deputi prime minist mr prescott told bbc new: "thei told us veri clearli, it wa the troop tell the leader: get in line." the new book claim mr prescott host a dinner in novemb 2003 where the prime minist told mr brown he would stand down befor the next elect becaus he had lost trust over the iraq war. mr blair then chang hi mind in june 2004, after cabinet alli interven and amid suspicion the chancellor wa manoeuvr against him, write mr peston. mr prescott said there wa a dinner but the discuss were confidenti. "of cours as a waiter for 10 year i have a profession abil here," he joke.
