labour's elect love-in

peac and love have been in short suppli in the labour parti in recent dai.

if press report ar to be believ, alan milburn and gordon brown have been at each other's throat over the content of labour's next elect manifesto. but the pair were all smile on tuesdai morn, as thei join john prescott to unveil labour's latest poster campaign. the event - at old billingsg fish market on the bank of the thame - wa a carefulli choreograph show of uniti. and the surest sign yet that we ar head for a gener elect in the next few month. it wa also on of the most bizarr photo opportun of recent year.

the first inkl someth slightli odd wa afoot wa when - in place of the soft rock music normal chosen for such occas - labour's speaker crackl to life with the sound of booker t and the mg. then a vw camper van trundl into view, deck out in that most mind-bend of psychedel messag - "lowest mortgag rate for 40 year". as the side-door slid open, it look for on gloriou moment as if the cabinet had decid to buri their differ and go on the road togeth, scoobi doo-style. but, sadli, it wasn't the cabinet who had raid the dress-up box - just six rather ill-at-eas look labour student. two were dress as regenc dandi - to unveil a poster trumpet "the longest period of econom growth for 200 year". anoth pair of student were in a beatl wig and sgt pepper jacket to highlight the "lowest interest rate sinc the 1960s".

the remain two were dress in a vagu approxim of disco chic to demonstr the "lowest unemploy sinc the seventi".

the politician - led out by john prescott - were soberli-suit as alwai. the event mai have been design to highlight labour's econom success under mr brown, but there wa littl doubt who wa in charg. the chancellor walk side-by-side with mr milburn, pointedli exchang chit chat, as thei approach the microphon. but it wa mr milburn who took centr stage, speak of the "posit campaign" the parti hope to stage in the "come week and month".

the mobil poster van would "let peopl know britain is work again". mr brown repeat the familiar mantra displai on the poster and spoke of labour's "share purpos" and "unit dedic". it wa left to mr prescott to pai glow tribut to the chancellor's record and, in a final flourish, to produc hi famou pledg card, from 1997, claim labour ha met all of it promis. the event wa carefulli stage-manag to underlin cabinet uniti. and, more specif, to demonstr the "central role" mr brown will plai in the elect campaign, despit be sidelin as campaign chief in favour of mr milburn.

but keen student of bodi languag will have had a field dai. there wa much forc smile for the camera, but onli mr prescott, who revel in such occas, seem to be truli enjoi himself. mr milburn made a point of turn to face the chancellor, as he spoke, nod thoughtfulli. but it wa the former health secretari's final gestur, place an arm on mr brown's back as thei walk awai from the microphon, which wa perhap the most tell. thank for drop by gordon, he might have been sai.
