howard taunt blair over split

toni blair's feud with gordon brown is damag the wai the uk is govern, tori leader michael howard ha claim in a heat prime minist's question.

mr howard ask: "how can thei fight crime when thei ar fight each other?" that question wa later unveil as the headlin for new tori campaign poster. but mr blair dismiss the talk of split and said peopl's prioriti at the next elect would be on the econom success achiev by labour. "he can stick up whatev he like on billboard about someth in a book but what the public will concentr on ar the low mortgag, low inflat, low unemploy that we deliv and that he fail to," he said. the chancellor is current on a high-profil tour of africa to highlight new anti-poverti plan. but befor do so, he insist he still trust mr blair, despit claim to the contrari in a new book.

brown's britain, by robert peston, sai there is mutual animos between the two men. it claim mr blair said in novemb 2003 he would stand down as prime minist befor the next elect. but he went back on hi pledg after support from cabinet alli and suspicion that mr brown wa manoeuvr against him, it sai.

mr peston's book claim that mr brown told mr blair: "there is noth you could ever sai to me now that i could ever believ." mr blair directli deni that quot on wednesdai. he again insist there could be no deal about the premiership but twice declin directli to sai whether or not he had offer to quit.

the tori leader counter that such agreement had been struck twice at dinner with the chancellor. he declar: "he is the deal on meal prime minist. no wonder the chancellor is not a happi eater." he continu: "how can there be disciplin in school when there is no disciplin in govern, how can thei clean up our hospit when thei don't clean up their act?" mr blair said he would not respond to "tittl tattl in book" and promis to hail labour's record on the economi, wait list and law and order "from now until poll dai". later at their poster launch tori co-chairman liam fox said hi parti would exploit opportun to show how "juvenil" the prime minist and chancellor were.

labour stage a show of uniti at it own poster launch on tuesdai, where mr brown wa join by alan milburn, who mr blair controversi put in charg of elect plan in place of the chancellor. but liber democrat leader charl kennedi told bbc new: "the govern is clearli split at the top. thi kind of cosmet exercis doe not persuad anybodi." later thi week mr blair is expect to outlin the direct of hi parti's next elect manifesto. the prime minist and chancellor face backbench discont at mondai's meet of the parliamentari labour parti over claim made mr peston's book.
