how polit squabbl snowbal

it's becom commonplac to argu that blair and brown ar like squabbl school kid and that thei (and their support) need to grow up and stop bicker.

but thi analysi in fact get it wrong. it's not just children who fight - adult do too. and there ar solid reason why even a trivial argument between matur protagonist can be hard to stop onc it got go. the kei featur of an endless feud is that everyon can agre thei'd be better off if it end - but everyon want to have the last word.

each particip genuin want the row to stop, but think it worth prolong the argument just a tini bit to ensur their view is heard. their success attempt to end the argument with their last word ensur the argument goe on and on and on. (in the case of mr blair and mr brown, success book ar publish, ensur the issu never die.) now thi isn't becaus the particip ar stupid - it's actual each individu behav entir ration, given the incent face them. inde, there's even a piec of econom theori that explain all thi. noth as obscur as "post-neo-classic endogen growth theori" which the chancellor himself onc quot - but a ubiquit piec of game theori which all respect polici wonk ar familiar with.

it's often refer to as the "prison's dilemma", base on a parabl much told in econom degre cours... about a sheriff and two prison. the stori goe that two prison ar jointli charg with a heinou crime, and ar lock up in separ cell. but the sheriff desper need a confess from at least on of them, to provid enough evid to convict them of the crime. without a confess, the prison will get a minim sentenc on some trump up charg.

clearli the prison' best strategi is to keep their mouth shut, and take the short sentenc, but the clever sheriff ha an idea to induc them to talk. he tell each prison separ, that if thei confess - and thei ar the onli on to confess - thei'll be let off their crime. and he tell them that if thei don't confess - and thei ar the onli on not to confess - thei'll get life. now, if you ar prison confront with thi choic, your best bet is to confess. if your partner doesn't confess, you'll get off complet. and if your partner doe confess, you'd better confess to ensur you don't get life. the result is of cours, both prison confess, so the sheriff doe not have to let either on off. both prison' individu logic wa to behav that wai, even though both would have been better if thei had somehow agre to shut up. don't worri if you don't entir follow it - you can to look it up on googl, where there ar 283,000 entri on it.

the prison' dilemma and all it ramif have truli captur economist in the last coupl of decad. it is a parabl us to describ ani situat where there is an obviou sensibl choic to be taken collect, but where the onli ration choic individu is to behav selfishli.

a cold war arm race for exampl - a classic case where both russia and america would be better off with just a few arm, rather than a lot of arm. but as long as each want just a few more arm than the other, an arm race ensu with the result that the individu logic decis to bui more arm, result in arm level that ar too high. what econom tell us is that onc you're in a prison' dilemma - unless you ar repeat the experi mani time over - it's hard to escap the pervers logic of it. it's no good just exhort peopl to stop bui arm, or to stop argu when all their incent encourag them to carri on. somehow, the incent have to chang.

in the case of the labour parti, if you believ the rift between blair and brown camp is as bad as the report suggest, solomon's wisdom need to be deploi to solv the problem. everi parent know there ar ingeni solut to argument, solut which affect the incent of the particip. an exampl, is the famou rule that "on divid, the other choos" as a wai of alloc a piec of cake to be slice up between greedi children. in the case of an appar endless argument, if you want it to come to an end, you have to ensur the person who ha the last word is on who lose rather than the on who win the row. the cost of prolong the row by even on more brief, or on more book for that matter, ha to exce the benefit of have the last word, and get your point in. if the rest of the parti can enforc that, thei'll have the protagonist retreat pretti quickli.
