blair look to elect campaign

toni blair's big speech will be look back on as the perform that kick off the elect campaign.

that poll mai still be about 16 week awai, but there can be littl doubt left that the campaign is now in full swing. the prime minist us hi speech to a select audienc in the south east to set out hi broad brush elect manifesto. there wa a detail account of the govern's past record, with a major emphasi on the economi and public servic. there wa an attempt to draw the line under the gossip surround hi rift with chancellor gordon brown. and there wa an insist on the import of the parti continu to oper as unremittingli "new" labour - although that mai continu to irrit hi chancellor.

there wa littl in term of concret propos or what might form manifesto pledg, although the prime minist talk about a "new labour manifesto that will be aim at all section of societi". hi wa more a speech design to remind peopl, and some in hi own parti, precis what new labour stood for, and to leav them in no doubt there would not be ani shrink awai from that approach. and, for some, that mean show that new labour actual doe stand for someth - that it is, as he said, more than "an elector devic".

to that end he set out a broad programm aim to appeal to both middl england voter who switch to the parti in 1997 and stuck with it, possibl through some grit teeth, in 2001, and to more tradit lower incom old labour support. in a kei section, he declar: "in our third term we can achiev an unpreced widen of opportun and prosper. "for the first time ever a whole gener grow up with unbroken econom stabil. everi famili - not just the fortun few - know their children will have an inherit at adulthood. "everi pupil in everi secondari school guarante a place in univers or a qualiti apprenticeship. everi adult - includ those who miss out at school - abl to get the skill then need to advanc. "home ownership extend to it highest ever level and to famili who have never befor been abl to afford it. "the highest ever level of employ with everyon in work guarante a decent wage and decent condit".

under what is to be the gener elect slogan "britain is work", the prime minist time and again insist the futur direct would be unremittingli new labour. that might get under the skin of mr brown, but he also heap prais on him as the most success post-war chancellor britain ha had. probabl the greatest ideolog divid between the two men, in so far as there is on, is about the degre of privat financ allow into the public servic.

an unremittingli "new" labour manifesto, as the prime minist is happi to make plain, will stress the import of that - the belief patient and parent, for exampl, want a choic of good servic befor thei start worri about who ha provid them. the chancellor is said to be far more sceptic about privat financ, although there is no suggest he oppos it in principl. with an elect loom the next big speech from gordon brown will be close examin for ani sign of divis and, in particular, the us of that littl three letter word. but for now, all ey have been focus on the next gener elect. and for mani in westminst, mr blair's perform ha onli succeed in harden the belief that will be on 5 mai.
