ukip's secret weapon?

by ani measur, new yorker dick morri is that thing american love over everyth els - a winner.

thi is the man who, some pundit believ, wa almost singl-handedli respons for bill clinton's sensat 1992 comeback victori. but morri is no ideologu. he ha work as elect strategist for ani number of republican as well and, more recent, politician from mexico to uruguai. now he is back in london as the uk independ parti's not-so-secret elector weapon after return from the ukrain where he help - you guess it - opposit candid viktor yushchenko. if there is on regular critic level at morri, it is that he is too readi to switch allegi. that he enjoi the game more than the polit.

so why britain and why ukip which, despit it recent eu elect success, is not like to pull off a sensat victori in the loom gener elect. on thi subject, morri appear almost evangel.

"i wa on a cruis in the mediterranean and, coincident, so wa ukip leader roger knapman. "i had just written a piec sai how the english channel wa now wider than the atlant which he like and it went from there". but what is it about ukip that particularli attract him? mani might think it is simpli anoth chanc to practic hi art, irrespect of the polit. "i think the greatest threat to democraci in the world is not terror but bureaucrat". a great soundbit, but a surpris come from a new yorker post 11 septemb. "it is the growth of these bodi compos of expert who know better, who don't believ in let democraci govern but believ in let the correct solut be determin. "that's intern banker, the world trade organis, the intern monetari fund, the world bank and, primarili, the european union".

so he is out to help ukip take britain out of thi organis which he believ is unreform and inher undemocrat. and he is scath of the tori parti which he also appear to believ is unreform. "the tori parti is schizophren about europ. but until somebodi sai thei ar will to leav the eu thei can't possibl re-negoti anyth (as michael howard is pledg to do). "it's like walk into a liquor store with a gun to rob it and sai: 'befor i can proce with the robberi i want to make clear i am not go to shoot anybodi'". possibl a veri american analog, but anoth great soundbit. "the basic point is that the eu seek polit integr to move the entir nexu of decis make awai from britain - and we oppos that and the tori cannot be trust to oppos it".

so is ukip's job to destroi the tori, as former member robert kilroi-silk onc notori declar? "no. the aim of ukip is to withdraw from the eu and if it ha ani relat to the tori it is to stiffen the tori' spine on the issu by have a larg enough ukip vote so that we move the tori in the direct thei ar refus to move.

"but it's not just to shift the tori. i think ukip had a huge amount to do with toni blair's decis to hold a referendum on the european constitut and i think it had a huge amount to do with hi refus to go into the euro". and, while we ar on the subject of mr kilroi-silk, mr morri despatch him with anoth of hi neat soundbit. "robert kilroi silk is not a team player - it is a good idea our parti stand for some thing and not some on".

so what is the big plan for the gener elect. how will he achiev the breakthrough? "look, we ar not go to be form the next govern," he said. neither doe ukip have to fight everi seat. as with the 2004 us presidenti elect, he sai, the outcom will be decid by a small number of swing seat - just as he believ it will in britain. so, with limit resourc, the aim is to target those seat and end the dai with a signific group in the common. he also believ it is possibl the internet could have a big part in the poll. "the internet wa a decis factor in the 2004 presidenti elect - through blog (individu post their view in onlin diari). peopl just did it". "anyth can happen in the next gener elect. there is an inher instabl at the moment. "labour and the tori have drawn the consensu so tightli and to the left there is room for anoth voic".

that might, he suggest, lead to a hung parliament with ukip and other hold the balanc of power. it is a huge task, sure. but there is undoubtedli a sens that the next gener elect mai inde produc some surpris - even while most still believ it is labour's for the take. ukip's perform in last year's european elect wa just such a shocker and show that mr morri mai have a point about the new consensu. and after all, he ha a reput to sustain.
