more reform ahead sai milburn

labour will continu to pursu controversi reform if it win a third term in power, the parti's elect chief alan milburn ha said.

he pledg labour would encourag more peopl to achiev their aspir. "what we want is for more peopl to earn and own," mr milburn told bbc radio 4's todai show. tori shadow chancellor oliv letwin call labour "a brilliant machin for talk about thing" but said it did not deliv polici the countri need. meanwhil, the liber democrat' presid simon hugh said: "new labour ha lost peopl's confid in a wai old labour never did." mr milburn told todai that labour want polici which encourag increas social mobil in britain.

press on incapac benefit, he said the tax and welfar system must "provid the right incent to peopl". "no-on is talk about drive peopl into work but what we do know is there ar on million peopl on incapac benefit who want the opportun to work, provid the right level of support is there for them". howev, backbench labour mp karen buck warn against propos chang in such benefit. she told the todai programm: "if the polici is seen as be about how do you make the feckless poor go back to work then it is not go to work, on the on hand. and it is not go to improv our elector chanc on the other." mr milburn also sought to draw a line under the controversi about report of a feud between gordon brown and prime minist toni blair.

he stress that mr brown would plai the same role that he did in the last elect. mr milburn gave more detail of plan reform in a speech to labour's fabian societi, in which he also prais mr brown as on of the leader of the parti's reform process. in the speech, he back choic in school and hospit, wider home ownership and chang to the welfar system. mr milburn insist that govern reform must continu. "our task is to rebuild the new labour coalit around 'on nation polit' that recognis, while life is hard for mani, all should have the chanc to succe," he said. "there is a glass ceil on opportun in thi countri. in our first two term we have rais it. in our third term we have to break it." voter turn on the parti when it fail to reform industri relat in the 1960s, he also told hi audienc.

oliv letwin said the govern had fail to deliv in ani of the kei public servic, such as cleaner hospit, disciplin in school and put more polic on the street. he said minist had not deliv cleaner hospit, with 5,000 peopl dy from infect last year. new labour had fail on school disciplin becaus it had not implement seriou reform so that teacher could run school, and which would give parent choic, he went on. for the lib dem, simon hugh said mani pension ar mean test for the monei thei need and student who were told there wouldn't be tuition fee and more debt "have been given exactli the opposit". he ad: "under new labour, all household ar still pai unfair council tax rather than a fairer altern."
