defect time to hit tax pledg

with impecc and precis-calcul time, tori defector robert jackson and hi new labour boss have attempt to overshadow michael howard's latest announc on taxat and spend.

with just about everyon in westminst now work toward a mai gener elect, mr howard is eager to map out some clear and distinct polici aim at final shift the tori' resolut depress poll show. the big idea is hi £35bn save on wast and bureaucraci which mr howard ha pledg to plough back into public servic and tax cut. and it wa virtual certain hi pledg on tax cut wa meant to be the core messag from hi interview on the bbc on's breakfast with frost programm. he and hi shadow chancellor oliv letwin have been edg toward an announc on thi front for some month now, but without ani concret pledg. but mr howard announc that, of the £35bn he ha earmark from save, £12bn will be us to plug labour's claim financi black hole with ani left over go to tax cut in mr letwin's first budget. he would not be precis, but there ar alreadi suggest he is set to announc lift the threshold on incom tax and reform or abolish inherit tax. but he did, for the first time, sai there would be such tax cut.

"at thi elect, peopl will have a clear choic between mr blair who will wast more and tax more and the conserv parti which will give valu for monei and tax less". it is the tori' attempt to open that fame "clear blue water" between them and the labour parti and return to a tradit tori agenda that will both reassur the middl england voter who have abandon him and appeal to core conserv voter. so it is a pretti safe bet to assum that, when robert jackson final decid to jump ship and swim over to the labour bench, hi new master decid to time the announc for the greatest possibl impact. mr howard, howev, wa dismiss. "these thing happen from time to time. there ar disagr between robert jackson and me.

"the elect is not go to be decid on what robert jackson did," he ad. and that is certainli true. the elect will be decid on "the economi stupid". other issu like the iraq war and the "trust" thing will also plai a major part. but it is the economi that will probabl be the greatest influenc over the wai peopl final vote. and mani on the tori bench have been cry out for mr howard to get back onto the old tori tax cut agenda. mr howard know that risk accus that, as a result, he would slash public servic, so he ha attempt to shoot that fox first. with poll suggest voter would rather ani govern cash surplus were spent on school and hospit befor tax cut, he ha suggest that is exactli what he will do. whether thi will final be enough to shift those poll remain to be seen.
