tori leader unveil spend plan

tori leader michael howard sai hi parti can save £35bn in govern spend by tackl wast.

the monei would be plough back into frontlin servic like the nh and school with the rest us to cut govern borrow and reduc tax. the tori leader ha also shrug off the defect of on of hi mp, robert jackson, a former minist, to labour. mr howard said that these thing happen in polit and it would not affect the outcom of the elect. "let's be realist - the elect is not go to be decid on the basi of what mr jackson did", he told bbc 1's breakfast with frost programm. howev the defect on saturdai ha cast a shadow over the launch of the conserv' spend plan. fuller detail ar due to be unveil on mondai.

the bulk of the £35bn save by tackl bureaucraci and ineffici system will go back into frontlin servic, mr howard said. the £12bn left over would then be spent on reduc govern borrow, he ad. howev, the remaind would deal with some of the "unfair tax". "almost everi independ expert sai if you get anoth labour govern you ar go to have to pai higher tax," mr howard insist. "becaus borrow is go up, it is out of control, that is bound to lead to higher tax or higher interest rate or both. "so part of the £12bn we ar go to appli to fill the govern's black hole, reduc the borrow. "the rest will be us to reduc these unfair tax which ar bear so heavili on the peopl of our countri todai."

mr howard is expect to sai that around £6bn will be avail for tax cut when he make hi announc on mondai. the cut will be paid for out of the save identifi by busi troubl-shooter david jame. home offic spend could be cut by £1.6bn, accord to the final instal of hi year-long review. save of £153m at the foreign offic and £336m at the depart for cultur media and sport, have also been identifi. in all, almost a quarter of a million job and 168 public bodi would go under mr jame' propos.

mr howard said: "all thi add up to a bottom line and the bottom line is at thi elect peopl will have a clear choic between mr blair, who will wast more and tax more, and a conserv govern that will give them valu for monei and tax less." howev, chief treasuri secretari paul boateng said: "none of the tori' figur add up so thei can't make these save and can't pai for ani tax cut, which mean the onli guarante cut from the tori is £35bn of cut, hit frontlin public servic hard." liber democrat leader charl kennedi ad: "peopl will not be taken in by michael howard's claim of £35bn worth of save. "thi can't be achiev without drastic cut in local servic in their own commun." a poll for the new of the world newspap suggest the conserv ar on cours for their worst elect defeat in a centuri. labour will hold kei margin constitu, win a major of 160, the populu survei suggest. and the liber democrat will take three kei seat from the conserv, leav the tori with just 163 mp, two less than thei return atlabour's 1997 landslid and their worst show sinc 1906.
