kennedi look to elect gain

thei mai not know quit how to describ their posit in british polit - the real opposit, the valid opposit, the effect opposit or the authent opposit.

but the liber democrat ar enter the expect 2005 elect campaign determin to prove it is thei, not the tori, who ar now the real threat to labour. as tori leader michael howard kick off hi elect campaign, the lib dem leader charl kennedi dismiss the conserv as a "fade" forc. and he insist there wa "no limit" to hi parti's ambit in the come poll. and he can produc some pretti impress recent elect result to back up hi optim for an elect which he believ might just see hi parti do big thing. sensibl third parti leader ar usual cautiou about make ani predict about how thei will do come the big test.

and mr kennedi wa not fall into that trap when he fire up hi campaign from the parti's westminst hq. he would make no predict other than that he expect the lib dem to increas both their vote and their common seat at the elect.

the gap between labour and the tori wa now so narrow - as prove, he claim, by the defect to labour of robert jackson - that onli hi parti offer a genuin altern. on the war on iraq, ident card, student fee and the council tax, there wa noth to chose between the two big parti wherea the liber democrat offer cost, sensibl altern. he wa also happi to break the two parti consensu on taxat by promis to increas incom tax on those earn more than £100,000 a year to pai for the scrap of student fee, the introduct of free person care for the elderli and replac the council tax with a local incom tax. he wa also happi to offer a pledg that he would be do no deal to "prop up" either of the other big parti after the elect.

there wa a time when such optimist sound come from the third parti could be dismiss as self-delus. that is no longer the case with the liber democrat. the other parti will still insist that the lib dem ar no hoper whose greatest effect on the poll will be to boost the hope of their oppon by deni them otherwis winnabl seat.

labour, in particular, fear that disillus support mai switch to the lib dem allow the tori to win some seat. but mr kennedi is clearli hope for a more signific outcom than that. he will not talk about the big breakthrough, although there ar those who believ thi could well be the elect that see hi parti cross some sort of symbol threshold. thei would argu that, by the time of the elect after next, the liber democrat mai genuin have replac the tori as the parti challeng labour for power. the lib dem will hope to have made advanc becaus of their consist stand against the war on iraq. but mr kennedi believ hi new manifesto will also offer sensibl, cost and achiev polici on thing like the council tax, crime and asylum that will underpin hi claim that hi parti realli is the onli opposit worth the name.
