'best person' for top legal job

the "best person for the job" should be appoint lord chancellor, and not necessarili a lawyer or mp, the court minist ha told mp.

under reform, the post of lord chancellor is to be strip of it judici function. "the lord chancellor...no more need to be a lawyer than the secretari of health need to be a doctor," said court minist christoph lesli. the constitut reform bill wa enter it second read on mondai. mr lesli said: "the prime minist should be abl to appoint the best person for the job whether thei sit in the hous of lord or the hous of common." under the reform, the law lord will also be replac as the uk's highest legal author by a suprem court and judg will be appoint by an independ panel rather than minist.

in decemb the lord reject a plea by current lord chancellor lord falcon that the holder of the job should not necessarili be a lawyer or a peer. the peer vote by 229 to 206 to sai in law that lord chancellor must also be peer. the debat wa carri over from the last parliamentari session, but with an impend gener elect time is crucial for the govern to get the bill pass. mr lesli said it wa irrelev whether the post wa call secretari of state for constitut affair or lord chancellor. he said: "what matter most is...whether it is reform so that the post holder no longer ha those conflict duti. "it is no longer appropri for a govern minist to have such unfett discret in the appoint of judg."

shadow attornei gener domin griev criticis the govern on it plan to chang what he said wa an "except institut," provid a "champion of the independ of the judiciari". the govern had initi propos to take thi institut and "smash it to piec," mr griev said. convent should be "nurtur and celebr," but the govern distrust and dislik it instead. he warn that unless minist back down over the lord chancellor remain a member of the hous of lord, the govern would have "great difficulti" in get the bill through parliament. former cabinet minist dougla hogg, whose father and grandfath serv as lord chancellor, said the bill wa "larg unnecessari, bureaucrat and expens". but the tori mp for sleaford and north hykeham admit the lord chancellor's role and offic "cannot be frozen in aspic".
