howard dismiss tori tax fear

michael howard ha dismiss fear from some conserv that hi plan for £4bn tax cut ar too modest.

he defend the packag, sai it wa a plan for the tori' first budget and he hope to be abl to go further. the tori on mondai highlight £35bn in "wast" spend thei would stop to allow tax cut, reduc borrow and more spend on kei servic. labour and the liber democrat sai the parti's sum do not add up and claim it would cut frontlin servic. the tori tax plan follow complaint from some of the parti's mp that mr howard and shadow chancellor oliv letwin have taken too long to unveil the propos. now thei have promis a figur but have yet to reveal which tax would be target.

tori backbench edward leigh said the propos were a step in the right direct but he told the financi time: "i would come up sooner with much greater tax cut." interview on bbc radio 2's jeremi vine show, mr howard said: "it is perfectli true that i am be attack on on side by peopl who think we ought to be promis much, much bigger tax cut and spend cut.

"on the other side, there ar peopl who sai we won't be abl to achiev these tax cut. "i think we have got it about right." mr howard said voter face a clear choic at the next elect between more wast and more tax under labour and tori valu for monei and lower tax. he ad: "i would like to be abl to do more, and over time i am sure we will be abl to do more, but at the start, we have got to recognis there is a limit to what we can do in on go, in our first budget. "i have got to be respons about thi."

the latest tori plan came as campaign for the elect - wide expect in mai - gather pace. the liber democrat launch their pre-elect platform, with leader charl kennedi sai hi parti wa the "authent opposit", particularli on the iraq war, council tax and univers tuition fee. lib dem treasuri spokesman vinc cabl also brand the tori plan as "fantasi econom". labour hit back at the tori propos even befor their public with elect coordin alan milburn accus mr howard of produc a "fraudul prospectu". the parti on tuesdai challeng the tori to publish the full report from david jame, the troubl-shooter thei ask to identifi possibl save. but the tori ar in turn demand that toni blair spell out which tax he would rais if he win the elect.
