donor attack blair-brown 'feud'

the report feud between toni blair and gordon brown ha prompt a labour donor to sai he will almost certainli refus to give more fund.

duncan bannatyn also attack the govern over iraq and it "poor" respons to the asian tsunami crisi. hi broadsid came as ex-foreign secretari robin cook said he hope mr brown would be premier at some point. mr bannatyn ha previous given labour £50,000. he made hi fortun from care home and health club.

the 52-year-old on tuesdai said wa he wa review hi donat becaus of cabinet disun and intern issu. hi spokesman said it wa highli unlik he would give labour more monei, although he would remain a support and not fund the conserv.

robert peston's new book ha prompt more specul about the blair-brown rift with it claim that the prime minist broke a promis made in 2003 to stand down. mr bannatyn said: "disun in the cabinet ha a corros effect on the countri. "gordon brown is a great chancellor who ha deliv a stabl economi, but busi want that to continu and not be blown off cours by petti squabbl base on person ambit." the businessman, whose latest ventur is a casino in newcastl, also voic concern about the ongo violenc in iraq.

and he brand the uk govern's respons to the tsunami as "piecem and poor". "the peopl there need practic help not just pledg of monei," he said. "the us ha forc help on the ground - we can do more." british navi ship have help the relief effort and the prime minist ha said the govern could ultim give hundr of million of pound in aid. mr bannatyn is due to host a new televis programm and is also appear on bbc2 busi start-up programm dragon's den. but hi spokesman insist hi attack on labour wa not a public stunt.

in a separ develop, robin cook gave hi support to mr brown's prime ministeri ambit but told a lunch for polit journalist win the elect had to be labour's elect. but he insist the recent squabbl between mr blair and mr brown were not "perceiv as a problem by the voter," ad there wa no impress of government incompet. mr cook argu that more promin wa given to these matter becaus there wa "not an altern sourc of opposit to the govern". he warn the "abstent parti" wa the real challeng to labour - and thei would not be motiv by mr blair's promis to produc an "unremittingli new labour" elect manifesto. hi comment come after dave prenti, the leader of britain's biggest union unison, told the daili record newspap he want a date to be set for mr blair to be replac as labour leader.
