amnesti chief lament war failur

the lack of public outrag about the war on terror is a power indict of the failur of human right group, amnesti intern's chief ha said.

in a lectur at the london school of econom, iren khan said human right had been flout in the name of secur sinc 11 septemb, 2001. she said the human right movement had to us simpler languag both to prevent sceptic and spread a moral messag. and it had to fight poverti, not just focu on polit right for elit.

ms khan highlight detent without trial, includ those at the us camp at guantanamo bai in cuba, and the abus of prison as evid of increas human right problem. "what's a new challeng is the wai in which thi ag-old debat on secur and human right ha been translat into the languag of war," she said. "by us the languag of war, human right ar be sidelin becaus we know human right do not appli in time of war." ms khan said such breach were infecti and were now seen in almost veri major countri in the world. "the human right movement face a crisi of faith in the valu of human right," she said. that wa accompani by a crisi of govern, where the unit nation system did not seem abl to hold countri to account.

the amnesti secretari-gener said a grow gap between the perceiv influenc of human right group and what thei could actual achiev wa fuell sceptic. "public passiv on the war against terror is the singl most power indict on the failur of human right group," she said. ms khan said the movement had fail to mobilis public outrag about what wa happen to the human right system. there need to be a drive to us simpler languag, talk about the basic moral of the issu rather than the complex of legal process. such effort could make the issu more relev to peopl across the world, she said.

the human right group also had to recognis there were new group which had to be tackl in new wai as power drip awai from state govern. al-qaeda, for exampl, wa not go to be impress by a tradit amnesti letter write campaign. more also need to be done to develop a human right framework for intern busi corpor. amnesti intern member vote in 2001 to extend the organis's work from polit and civil right to cover social and econom right too. ms khan said the human right movement would make itself irrelev if it turn awai from the suffer caus by econom strife. "we would be an elitist bunch work for the elit, for those who cannot read the newspap of their choic rather than those who cannot read," she said. despit her concern, ms khan dub herself a "hope-monger", sai she wa confid the passion of the human right movement could overcom the new challeng.
