kilroi-silk quit 'shame' ukip

ex-chat show host robert kilroi-silk ha quit the uk independ parti and accus it of betrai it support.

the mep said he wa asham to have join the parti, which he label as a "joke". he plan to stand in the next gener elect but refus to confirm he is set up a new polit parti call verita - latin for truth. ukip leader roger knapman said he would "break open the champagn", ad: "it wa nice know him, now 'goodby'." howev, he did sai the ex-chat show host had been "quit us initi". "he ha remark abil to influenc peopl but, sadli, after the (european) elect it becam clear that he wa more interest in the robert kilroi-silk parti than the uk independ parti so it wa nice know him, now 'goodby'," mr knapman told bbc radio 4's todai programm. mr knapman reject the idea mr kilroi-silk pose a threat to ukip and queri why he had fail to confirm rumour he wa start a new polit parti.

mr kilroi-silk explain hi reason to hi east midland constitu at a meet in hincklei, leicestershir. hi decis came as ukip offici began a process which could have trigger mr kilroi-silk's expuls. it mark the end of hi membership of ukip after just nine month. it began with a flood of public which help ukip into third place in last june's european elect but becam domin by rancour as he tri to take over the parti leadership.

mr kilroi-silk accus hi fellow ukip mep of be content with grow fat "sit on their backsid" in brussel. he told bbc new 24: "i tri to chang the parti, i nag all the wai through the summer to do thing, to get move becaus i thought it wa crimin what thei were do, it wa a betray." mr kilroi-silk also told sky new there wa "mass of support" for him to form a new parti - someth he ha yet to confirm will happen.

ukip won 12 seat and 16.1% of the vote at the european elect on the back of it call for the uk to leav the european union in hi speech, mr kilroi-silk sai the result offer ukip an "amaz opportun" but the parti's leadership had done noth and "gone awol". there were no polici, no energi, no vision and no spokespeopl, he said. "the parti is go nowher and i'm embarrass with it alli in europ and i'm asham to be a member of the parti," said mr kilroi-silk.

he said hi convict in britain's right to govern itself had not chang. he would continu that campaign outsid ukip when he contest the gener elect in an east midland constitu. report of hi new parti plan have prompt a formal complaint to ukip's disciplinari committe for bring the parti into "disreput". on thursdai, the parti challeng mr kilroi-silk to stand down as an mep so voter can get a genuin ukip candid.
