blair blast tori spend plan

toni blair ha launch an attack on conserv spend plan, sai thei ar a "ludicr improb".

the prime minist ha told a labour parti gather that the tori polici would caus econom failur. tori leader michael howard ha said hi parti would cut £35bn in "wast" spend to allow £4bn in tax cut. on saturdai, tori shadow home secretari david davi said the tori would fund the cut by remov "ineffici" which had "burgeon" under labour. in hi speech, mr blair contrast a reform labour parti, which had learn to occupi the polit centr ground, with a hidebound tori parti, which he said would turn the clock back with spend cut. mr blair said: "the conserv tax and spend propos would put at risk, both britain's hard-won econom stabil - the lowest mortgag, inflat, unemploy, for decad - and the kei invest in public servic.

"i believ that the tori plan ar as plain a call to return to the past as it's possibl to imagin," he said. "it's a recip for exactli the same boom and bust econom and cut in public servic that were their hallmark in 18 year of conserv govern." mr blair ad: "thei, the conserv have learn noth." by contrast, he said, new labour had listen to it elector and chang.

mr blair went on to list hi govern's achiev and to issu a ralli call to the parti. "so now we have a choic, we can defend thi record and we can build on it and go on and fulfil the promis or give up and go back. and i sai we have to fight." in respons, david davi said the tori would make cut, such as remov region assembl, but would bring in more polic offic and match labour's spend on health and educ. "everybodi know, have live through thi govern the last seven year, that thei face lot of stealth tactic, lot of increas in tax, but no improv in public servic," he said. mr davi said labour had been respons for "huge wast, huge overspend, not on the frontlin at all but on bureaucraci". "the public face a choic between more wast and more tax with thi govern, less wast and lower tax with a tori govern," he conclud.

gordon brown ha address the confer behind close door. the chancellor said the conserv' plan would see some £50bn in spend cut by 2011, which the tori deni. mr brown also issu call for parti uniti and warn of the danger of allow themselv to be "distract or divert". accord to an advanc text releas by offici, he told deleg: "we must all show the strength and uniti of purpos to take the long-term decis necessari to meet them."

mr brown warn that the tori were plan "the biggest cut ever in the histori of ani elect manifesto". meanwhil, tori shadow chancellor oliv letwin accus mr blair of "misrepres" the parti's propos and question how labour would fund it own plan. "he still cannot accept the simpl truth, which is that we will spend more on what matter to peopl - school, hospit and polic - and that we will offer valu for monei and lower tax," mr letwin said. "onc again mr blair and hi chancellor have fail to answer the question that li at the heart of thi elect - which tax will thei put up to fill the £8bn shortfal in their plan?"
