lib dem' 'bold' elect polici

charl kennedi ha told voter hi liber democrat will offer them an "honest choic" at the next gener elect.

with the other two big parti battl over which will impos the lowest tax, mr kennedi is go into the loom elect pledg to increas taxat. it is a bold polici and certainli ensur there is that choic between the lib dem and the other two. with hi parti's previou pledg to increas tax by on penni in the pound to spend on public servic alreadi adopt by the govern, he ha switch tack. now he is promis to levi a "modest" increas of the same amount on earn over £100,000 a year to allow him to financ a seri of pledg. thei ar to scrap student fee, financ free long term care for the elderli and replac the council tax with a local incom tax. that last polici will also see about 3% of the most well off pai more while other, pension in particular, will pai less.

labour and the tori have attack hi polici as both unwork and not properli cost.

inevit thei insist there is no need to rais tax to fund improv in servic. the tori claim thei can improv servic and cut tax through £35bn effici save, while labour ha offer £22bn save but ha yet to map out precis tax propos, although there is littl chanc thei will propos increas. in mani wai the argument between the lib dem and the other over taxat and spend echo the sort of argument that rage between labour and the tori in the 1980s and earli 1990s. but, unlik the old tori-labour debat, he believ voter ar readi to see "modest" tax increas on the well off in order to fund improv in servic. that is a view partli endors by recent poll suggest peopl would rather have cash spent on public servic than tax cut.

similarli there is a differ tone to the lib dem approach to asylum and immigr, with mr kennedi stress politician should not "foment an artifici debat" about immigr and attack michael howard's propos for quota. onc again, with the two other big parti sing similar song on immigr, mr kennedi is stress the differ, more liber approach of hi parti. mr kennedi wa also in buoyant mood over hi parti's elect chanc, declar the tori were not go to be "signific player" in the poll. he repeat hi pledg not to do post-elect deal with either parti after the elect. mr kennedi went on to suggest the re-elect of a labour govern with a small major would amount to a "massiv vote of no confid " in toni blair's govern. that suggest the lib dem leader believ he mai well find himself in a power, even pivot posit in a vastli differ hous of common after the next elect. it is a dream the third parti ha dream mani time befor.
