kennedi's cautiou optim

charl kennedi is far too canni to make ani grand claim about how hi parti mai fare at the gener elect.

in hi 22 year in the common, he ha seen hi fair share of such claim dash on the rock of bitter experi and, he might sai, the uk's polit and elector system. but even hi caution cannot hide the fact that thi is a parti and a leader that believ it mai well be on the wai to someth special in a few month' time. "look, i have alreadi said i am not go to put ani artifici limit on our ambit thi time around," he said. he still seem to accept that the most like outcom is anoth labour victori of some sort. and hi gener elect pitch is design around the notion of the lib dem as the "real" opposit.

but doesn't that lead to the jibe that hi is a parti activ bid to come second? he is prepar to go thi far: "a clear conclus ha been reach, includ by conserv, that the conserv ar not go to win thi elect. "therefor the potenti is there for the liber democrat advanc to be on of the big stori of the elect, given that we have the capac to take on labour and win as well as take on the conserv and win. "thi is realli go to be the first modern three parti uk elect that we have all experienc". but haven't we been here befor, with suggest in the 1980s that labour wa finish. won't voter look for an altern to labour still natur gravit to the conserv? "the problem is that, geograph, the conserv parti ha melt awai in about a third of britain. "we have supplant them as the main altern to labour in whole tract of mainland britain. and thei ar a parti with an ag and declin membership base and thei just do not look vibrant or vital or in touch ani longer with contemporari britain".

mr kennedi is also eager to dispel ani impress hi parti is the new parti of the left and is like to attract mostli disillus labour voter.

he insist hi three headlin commit, to be financ from a 1% tax increas on those earn over £100,000 a year, will appeal right across the polit spectrum. thei ar to replac the council tax with a local incom tax, provid free long term care for the elderli and scrap student fee. he also believ be the onli major parti promis to increas tax will not land him in the same troubl a similar polici did to old labour. "i think the tax argument ha move on a lot in british polit particularli in the context of the forthcom gener elect," he said. under a labour govern the tax burden would have to rise, while the tori' plan to increas spend in some area while also reduc tax is just incred, he claim.

"we ar be straightforward with peopl, sai you know there is like to be an increas in the tax burden, we ar onli recommend on specif tax rise for the top end of incom scale earner to fund three specif polici".

"that is a clear cut choic for peopl, on i am veri comfort with and i think will distinguish us from the other". as to hi own futur, he is clear. if, as expect, hi parti increas it show at the elect, he intend to go into the next parliament "on the front foot with a view to lead it right through that parliament into the next elect becaus i see that as the decis opportun for us". that last remark reflect a view gain ground in westminst that, if the tori do as badli as some fear, the elect after next might realli see that histor breakthrough by the third parti. perhap then mr kennedi will be readi to put some of the caution to on side.
