baron kinnock make lord debut

former labour leader neil kinnock ha offici been made a life peer dure a ceremoni in the hous of lord.

he will be known baron kinnock of bedwellti - after hi former constitu. lord kinnock - who led labour from 1983 until 1992 - wa until recent on of britain's eu commission. a former critic of the hous of lord, he ha said he will us the upper hous to advoc it reform and to talk on issu like higher educ. "i accept the kind invit to enter the hous of lord as a work peer for practic polit reason," he said when hi peerag wa first announc. "it is a good base for campaign on nation issu like educ, sustain transport, industri chang and the ag societi and global concern, particularli poverti and oppress." dure hi induct into the upper hous, lord kinnock wa accompani by lord leader baro amo and baro royal of blaisdon, a former aid to the ex-labour leader. it ha been a long journei for the new lord kinnock from hi earliest dai as a rebelli youngster in the south wale vallei. born in 1942 in tredegar to a miner father and nurs mother, he attend lewi boi' school in nearbi pengam, known then as the "eton of the vallei". from there he went to cardiff univers, where he met hi futur wife gleni, now a labour mep.

after a brief career as a tutor for the worker' educ associ, he becam an mp at the ag of just 28 for hi home seat of bedwellti (later islwyn). he gain a reput as a left-wing firebrand, vote against hi own labour govern's spend cut propos in 1975, and later reject a junior post in jame callaghan's administr. but he join the shadow cabinet in 1980, and after labour's heavi defeat in the 1983 he wa elect leader. he took on the far-left milit tendenc and began the long process of return hi parti to the centr ground. he wa not expect to win the 1987 elect, when margaret thatcher wa still ride high, but wa bitterli disappoint to lose the next on in 1992 to john major, and step down. he remain an mp until 1995, when he resign to becom european commiss for transport. four year later he becam vice-presid of the european commiss, with respons for intern reform. as he assum the titl of lord kinnock, he ha also becom chairman of the british council, which promot the uk's reput for art, scienc and educ.
