terror power expos 'tyranni'

the lord chancellor ha defend govern plan to introduc control order to keep foreign and british terrorist suspect under hous arrest, where there isn't enough evid to put them on trial.

lord falcon insist that the propos do not equat to a polic state and strike a balanc between protect the public against the threat of terror and uphold civil liberti. but thriller writer frederick forsyth tell bbc new of hi person respons to the move.



there is a mortal danger aim at the heart of britain. or so sai home secretari charl clark. my reaction? so what? it is not that i am cynic or just do not care. i care about thi countri veri much.

but in the 66 year that i have been aliv, there ha not been on hour, of on dai, of on month, of on year, when there ha not been a threat aim at us. my point is, the british have alwai cope without becom a dictatorship. we have cope with fear without becom a state base on fear; we have cope with threat without turn our countri into a land of state threat. but that is what the blair govern now seek to do - creat a tyranni to defend us from the al-qaeda tyranni.

i wa born on 25 august, 1938. the mortal threat back then wa a scruffi littl austrian call adolf hitler. a week after my first birthdai, the threat had becom realiti. we were at war. my father wore a uniform for five year. after 1945 we yearn for peac at last. but in 1946 winston churchil told us - from the baltic to the adriat an iron curtain ha descend across europ. behind the iron curtain, anoth genocid psychopath, anoth threat. josef stalin trigger the cold war, with the berlin blockad in 1948. my whole gener wa blight by it.

we were threaten by the nuclear holocaust, the nuclear wind, the nuclear winter. we built shelter that would have shelter noth. we spent our treasur on weapon instead of hospit. we took silli precaut. some fought it; some march futil against it. some pretend it wa not there. the cold war last 43 year, but we remain a parliamentari democraci. by the earli seventi it wa terror as well. al fatah, black septemb, red brigad, but most of all for us the ira and the inla. thirti more year; 300 policemen and women, over 600 soldier, more than 3,000 civilian dead, but we won becaus even ira bomb could not forc us to becom a tyranni. that wa why the tyrant lost. civil right were infring as littl as humanli possibl. evid had to be taken in secret to protect covert sourc; ye , and on judg, no-juri court had to be institut when juri were terroris. inform had to be given immun from their own crime to win the bigger battl. but habea corpu did not die; right of appeal wa not abolish. now the threat is islam fundament. it leader want to destroi our societi; so did the ira.

it is base and fund abroad; so wa the ira. it ha sleeper fanat insid our societi; so did the ira. it is extrem hard to penetr with our agent; so wa the ira. the prime mover ar not easi to bring to trial; neither were the ira. but we did. and without becom a tyranni. now the blair govern propos the law system of fascism and commun. the citizen can be arrest and held without charg or trial, not even on the care consider of an experienc judg, but the whim of a polit activist call a govern minist. to be protect from terror the govern sai, we must becom a tyranni. but a tyranni is base on the citizen's terror. thi is not victori; thi is defeat befor a shot is fire.

an interest articl - it good to see widen particip in the debat - but i suggest we move on step further. our own bomb and bullet will can onli shatter peac, becaus invad foreign nation, imprison the innoc and 'hunt' in the 'shadow' cannot destroi an evil of the mind, and hatr within the heart. rather than focus upon effect, we should consid the caus, becaus terror doe not begin with bomb. why not try a foreign polici of compass, it can onli enhanc our democraci, and share our freedom.

i agre with frederick forsyth. we realli can't deal with terror by turn britain into a fascist state. what we realli need is more honesti from our secur servic and our politician. if thei do not have evid to bring these peopl to trial, there probabl isn't ani. our secur servic, behav like the detect who have decid that a certain person is guilti, rake over all kind of obscur and flimsi evid to try and prove it, while the real villain get awai. rememb there were no wmd in iraq. just becaus a person mai have made some stupid and naiv decis in life doe not make them a terrorist.

in thi overli 'polit correct' societi, it is good to see someon like mr. forsyth speak out. ye, there ha been oppress by the british govern in the past, and overstep the mark in place like ireland, but ye, we ar still a democraci where it is rare to be arrest without charg/trial etc. (apart from a number of prison in belmarsh goal, for exampl).thi countri sign up to human right, and then pretend that thei onli appli to the peopl with noth to fear, the innoc peopl (defin by whom?). when id card becom mandatori, the data collect will not be protect by the data protect act, and will be readili avail to peopl like gchq, with no control by the person whose id is be check.

the threat now is new. you cannot compar the threat of past year with now. forsyth sai 3000 di over 30 year or terror; 3000 peopl di in on morn in ny on septemb 11th 2001. the threat todai is that terrorist will acquir nuclear or biolog technolog. a kilo of semtex will flatten a build, a kilo of plutonium will flatten a citi. you now have a combin of peopl who will perform terrorist act with technolog that is rapidli becom access. i agre, the govern is probabl encourag a degre of mass-hysteria and talk up the threat; but talk-down the threat and do noth is unaccept too.

the problem with thi issu is not that it isn't import, but the fact that in gener we brit can be so polit apathet some time, that we will just let thi go without tell the govern no. howev, as the nation that gave the world the common law and a true sens of the right of individu liberti i hope thi will prove to be on step too far.

as somebodi of chines origin, i can sai that thi countri us to be a good place to migrat and start a new life. whilst life wasn't perfect, we could make better for ourselv. now we ar riddl with red tape and be told what we can or cannot do. we have to be polit-correct and we ar not allow to have belief or opinion. we have a prime minist who spend too much time meddl in us polit and affair which have littl to do with the live of british citizen at home or abroad. mr forsyth ha done a good job in voic hi opinion. let's hope the bbc doesn't get gag for let peopl express their view. the peopl have the right to know and the bbc's role is to inform, educ and entertain...

i agre. terrorist intend to spread fear but in realiti it is the govern which ha spread the fear, by it constant publicis of the thi invis enemi so danger that we must allow them to ride roughshod over our right and liberti. in the end, the veri thing we seek to protect is what we ar give up in the name of safeti from thi invis enemi. the terrorist have alreadi won.

i absolut agre with frederick forsyth. ye we have to defend ourselv against terror but exist law seem to be more than adequ. the idea that the "new terror" demand new power is erron. the evid of ani real terrorist capabl in the uk is scant. ricin, for exampl, is a danger poison but it is not a weapon of mass destruct. what is realli worri is the enthusiasm of mr blair and hi govern for authoritarian reaction and attempt to manipul the elector through fear.

if the govern ha it wai with id card, track and so on then totalitarian ha won and as such it then matter littl whether we give in to the terrorist demand or not. we will have lost the preciou freedom which bush and blair constantli tell us we have and that thei seek to bring to other.

i agre wholeheartedli with mr forsyth. i am shock at the eas with which thi govern is prepar to wipe out a major portion of the liberti that british peopl have enjoi for centuri - the right not to be depriv of our liberti without a trial in open court. that goe right back to magna carta, and ordinari peopl have spill their blood to enforc that right against govern who thought thei "knew best".

when you look at todai's britain, you realis georg orwel wa onli wrong about on thing: the date.

frederick forsyth put it beautifulli. the govern is seek to introduc a polic state. the new power of home intern without trial follow a pattern which includ the introduct of surveil via compulsori id card and the link of data base, togeth with the un-british idea that we will have to swear allegi to the state at the ag of 18 year. we ar sleep-walk into thi. wake up!

an interest view but miss two crucial fact of thi new threat: 1) if these terrorist acquir weapon of mass destruct thei will us them without fear of mutual assur destruct that kept the cold war in a state of tens balanc. these peopl will us devast forc against us without fear of ani consequ. 2) the terrorist ar prepar to us suicid bomber which mean thei could kill innoc peopl on the london underground and we could do veri littl to stop it. becaus these terrorist ar potenti so deadli, we have to come up with new, tougher respons. it will be a littl late in the dai when peopl outsid london wake up on morn to find out that london ha been nuke. we won't have much of a societi left to debat !

he's correct in most of what he sai. mind you he doe seem to have forgotten that disgrac intern polici in northern ireland which probabl caus mani idealist if misguid young cathol to join the ira. administr detent of muslim could have a similar effect now.

sure we the public would be better protect if the secur servic, rather than alert a suspect terrorist by place them under hous arrest (and for how long?)thei were to place suspect terrorist under surveil and mayb acquir suffici evid to prosecut or even better prevent a terrorist attack.

i don't usual have much time for mr forsyth's larg right wing view but thi time he ha got it spot on. there is no doubt that there ar terrorist organis who would like to do harm to the u.k. but it is veri doubt whether al-qaeda is a global organis co-ordin thi. the rise of surveil camera, id card, the plan to charg for road us by track everi vehicl at all time, thi is the stuff of nightmar. add to thi thi new legisl which effect mean that the protect of the law will be remov from anyon at the whim of the home secretari, and i genuin wonder what sort of world my two children will inherit. where will thi end. as it stand terrorist do not need to attack the u.k. it's govern will soon have it's peopl terroris more that thei could veri achiev with a few bomb.

mr forsyth ha express exactli what my gut fear and reserv were about thi propos legisl, but could not verbalis. thank you.

mr forsyth seem to forget that kill in the troubl occur on both side of the religi divid and wa carri out by killer from both side. he also forget basic human right were suspend then as now. experienc judg sat over some of the greatest miscarriag of justic dure those time. for veri littl return and maximum alien. these law and the emphasi on the islam threat will just do the same.

forsyth is wrong. the natur of the current threat is new. it is no longer to our arm forc, as the soviet threat in the eastern bloc wa. it is to you and i. the terrorist aim to kill indiscrimin. the best comparison is therefor the blitz, 1941. at thi time, let us not forget, suspect (foreign and british were routin round up and intern for the durat of the war, without ani complaint from the public. we must not forget we ar at war.

i'd sai that that the likelihood of an attack by a sleeper cell of fundamentalist lunat against a major uk target is a "when" not an "if" probabl. i'll bet ani monei you like that the dai after ani such attack freddi forsyth will be sai that the govern didn't do enough to protect the uk. peopl like forsyth can onli see on side of ani argument and for him it is the side that is opposit new labour and toni blair.

i agre wholeheartedli with mr forsyth. the veri reason thi countri ha been such a wonder place to live, is under attack, not from terrorist, but from thi govern. the perpetu of the perceiv terrorist threat is not becaus of what the 'alleg' terrorist ar do, but from our own govern. i believ what thi govern is do, is, at the veri least, highli question and at worst, sinist. at what point will thei feel thei have enough control over everi singl person in the british isl; when we ar all tag and monitor constantli? our freedom is be craftili and surreptiti whittl awai by thi govern and we ar gain noth. it should be of great concern to everyon.

i am slightli older than mr forsyth and therefor have live through the same histori as him. i am against a polic state and would not like to think that i live in on. i think that the attack on iraq made the intern situat wors and mai have provok further act of terror.

how true. there ar extrem worri parallel between britain now and germani dure the 30's. i never thought it would be so easi to take over a countri from within.

mr forsyth ha forgotten on kei point; the terrorist who threaten britain todai ar well awar that hitler, stalin, and the ira all fail. as a result modern dai terrorist ar will to do thing their predecessor did not. that doe not mean that the civil liberti of modern britain must be erod to counter the threat; that should alwai be the absolut last resort. but to meet the new threat, to defeat the sinist fanatic of todai's terrorist, we mai need to do thing a littl differ. let us hope not.

freder forsyth's comment seem to me to be a well-thought-out analysi of why we (human societi as a whole, and britain in particular) should resist the temptat to over-protect through fear. it is thi fear which enabl terrorist to succe in the end, and terrorist can come in all form, as mr. forsyth's open comment suggest.

i am remind of a quot attribut to thoma jefferson. "a nation that limit freedom in the name of secur will have neither."

the govern ar face with an incred difficult task, and have made a polici to deal with it. it's all veri well criticis that polici, but if mr forsyth can't draw on hi year of experi to offer an altern, i sai 'so what?' to hi opinion.

frederick forsyth's rhetor is absurd and hi conclus laughabl. he distort realiti to serv hi own prejudic against new labour. thi govern seek to balanc protect of our democraci with minimum loss of civil right. it is frederick forsyth who is the extremist, becaus he doe not appreci the need for balanc.

i rare find myself agre with my forsyth, but in thi instanc i think he is correct. the rule of law must prevail, civil liberti ar worth defend. if the govern can hold 'suspect' without charg or trial, what's next?

i agre absolut. by introduc fascist type law we loos the moral high ground in our fight against terror. our democrat system is not perfect, but as churchil point out it is "better than all the other that have been tri". terrorist attack will take place but for mani reason we should take that person risk in return for person freedom.

i do not usual agre with mr. forsyth, but he is spot on here. the singl biggest threat we face is that of a govern dedic to act illeg and manipul intern and nation law to suit it own purpos. totalitarian alwai requir an outsid threat, justifi a rang of extraordinari power leader want. the british govern is a far greater threat that and terrorist organis.

although, in principl i agre with him, frederick forsyth fail to address on kei point- al-qaeda attack (though obvious there have been none yet in the uk) seek to kill the maximum number of peopl. the ira want to limit the death toll of their attack so as to maintain support among the republican movement.

ye, i agre with mr. forsyth's view. i do not believ the govern's plan ar justifi. there is over reaction to and the neg influenc of the us presid's interpret of democraci and freedom. he us the same argument that were current befor the wwii, the war to "liber" iraq, afghanistan with syria and iran to come. we ar leav a poor inherit for the futur gener.

mr forsyth is a wonder writer and should keep hi fiction where it belong. the british govern is not go down the road that mr forsyth suggest. sadli comment such as hi will make a lot of peopl believ that thei ar govern by peopl who ar fast becom tyrant instead of be genuin commit to stop tyranni, even if the method emploi to do that is at the moment alien to the british peopl who have live in a democraci protect by toni blair and other of like mind who, mr. forsyth seem to be put along side the 'scruffi littl austrian.'

thoma hobb would be smile in hi grave at labour's proposit. like new labour, he call himself a libertarian. like new labour, he believ he wa promot the peopl's best interest. but as forsyth criticis thi govern, hobb ha been criticis by most subsequ philosoph for argu hi wai into the hand of the totalitarian. simpli put, he argu that in favour of the ultim liberti - the liberti to live - man should be prepar to surrend all other liberti to a suprem sovereign, as protect against hi fellow, barbar, man. hobb ha been roundli condemn by poster, and rightli so. i hope new labour suffer the same treatment.

i agre with mr forsyth's view. the govern approach is total against the spirit of british democraci. thei must not be allow to get awai with it.

of cours frederick is wrong about britain win the war against the ira and he's wrong too about the countri not becom a tyranni. ha he forgotten about shoot to kill, tortur, intern without trial, collus with loyalist death squad etc?

my background is somewhat similar to freddi's so i am persuad to agre with mani of hi sentiment. we can have no moral justif for impos our system of govern on anyon while we ar systemat depriv our own citizen of basic individu and collect freedom.

whilst the principl of keep potenti terrorist under hous arrest might seem superfici attract, it is, unfortun, also the first step toward totalitarian. who is to decid whom is a suspect? why should we believ them? who can have faith in the honesti, integr, and compet of our intellig servic and politician in light of the event of recent year? what is to stop fals denunci? what of those fals accus who will lose their career? who will support their famili? will their children still go to school? it smack to me of the method of nazi germani, stalin's russia, ceausescu's romania - the list goe on. it look as if a new dark ag is come.

i see that opinion on mr forsyth's remark ar divid. the problem i see is that those who support imprison without trial believ it will never happen to them or their famili, onli to peopl thei don't like or ar scare of. but histori ha shown that if you have law like that, thei alwai get abus by those in power. after all, todai you mai be scare of the same peopl as those in power but somedai those in power mai be scare of you! and that dai, you'll be the on imprison without the chanc of justic. our law ar such that you cannot just be imprison at the whim of our polic forc, you have to be shown to be deserv of it. if we imprison peopl without trial for an indetermin period, we ar no better that those we ar fight.

i never thought it possibl for me to agre with a singl word utter by frederick forsyth, but i'm in wholeheart agreement with him on thi on. we, as a nation ar in grave danger of be dupe by pro us propaganda, which of cours also mean we'll inherit most, if not all of their total paranoia, and allow our govern, of ani polit persuas incident, to gradual, and insidi, impos a polic state by well tri & test back door method. i griev for the futur of my children, it's no wonder thei're adam thei don't ever want ani of their own.

thi govern, with much fanfar, sign us up to the european convent on human right but now want to introduc indefinit hous arrest without trial. thi put it on a par with the govern of burma.

like mani of your respond, i wouldn't usual think of mr forsyth as someon whose view i share, but in the instanc of oppos charl clark's propos for hous arrest, i agre wholeheartedli with mr forsyth/

i agre with mr forsyth. just look at the fact - our govern (along with the us) invad anoth sovereign countri (iraq) by select intellig that back it's case base on fear. the fact turn out to be veri differ. if individu ar treat in the same distort wai, then we've done ourselv more damag than ani terrorist organis could with bomb. we becom anim too.

i agre in mani wai with what mr forsyth ha said - if we ar to be respect and have influenc within the world we must be seen to be walk the walk as well as talk the talk - how can we accus countri such as zimbabw and burma of human right abus when we ar lock up peopl who mai be total innoc, it is hypocrisi of the highest order. mr forsyth link "islam fundament" to the new "threat". howev it appear that he ha misunderstood the term "islam fundament". it should be point out that a muslim who adher to the true fundament of the qur'aan and the teach of the last prophet muhammad is an islam fundamentalist. thi person doe not commit suicid in ani shape or form, nor doe she/he kill innoc women, men and children. thi person is self-reflect and constantli tri to better her/hi action by be good to other. the peopl who mr forsyth label the new "threat" ar those who do not follow the correct teach of islam. thei have arriv at their own interpret and assumpt with regard their action. on top of that, thei claim to be follow islam in it true form!

i accept that the intent of these polici ar to make britain a safer place but i cannot think of a singl exampl from histori where do thi sort of thing ha ever made ani differ - in northern ireland intern certainli didn't achiev anyth - the bomb didn't stop, and it could be argu that all it achiev wa to just suppli the ira with yet more angri and resent republican will to take up arm against the british.

be eight year older than frederick forsyth and a survivor of the blitz on london, it is easi to agre with him, he is absolut spot on. dure the ira bomb there were massiv explos in canari wharf, to the right of where i write thi, and also to the left in the citi of london. notwithstand these and the attempt and nearli success assassin attempt on prime minist thatcher in brighton and on later occup of 10 down street, there wa no retaliatori blitz on belfast or dublin as there ha been on afghanistan and iraq. even when england wa in true peril in 1940 apart from some detent there were no wholesal derog of habea corpu and the like. we have to see off these latest attempt on our liberti includ id card, which winston churchil decid had to go sinc, he said, the averag bobbi on the beat could not be reli on to not be tempt to take undu advantag against the citizen go about their law activ (incident i can still rememb my old id card number). henc it is clear that the far too great polic state power set for the statut book have to be resist and neuter.

what can i add to mr. forsyth's eloqu put argument... except applaus! well done that man for stand up and be count in the "war against tyranni".
