ukip mep attack german 'empir'

a uk independ parti mep suggest germani saw the eu as an 'empir' and wa cheaper than us tank, a new documentari ha reveal. mike nattrass, ukip's deputi leader, made the comment to an audienc at a meet dure last septemb's hartlepool by-elect campaign. but challeng on the remark, he deni accus germani of us the eu as cover for a "4th german reich". he sai he wa not "german-bash" but sai peac wa the eu's found aim. the meet wa shown in a bbc 3 film on ex-ukip mep robert kilroi-silk. the former chat show host quit the parti earlier thi month, call it a joke.

the documentari show mr nattrass, appar talk about the eu, tell the meet: "the german ar the big loser here but thei don't care becaus to them the project is worthwhil. "it's like an empir for them spread in all direct awai from germani into hungari, into what thei call the sudetenland - czechoslovakia, place like that. "so it's cheaper for them to do it thi wai than roll the tank in." on tuesdai, he told the bbc new websit he did not think the comment were offens and work happili with mep of differ nation in the european parliament. he argu that peac wa the onli reason for have the "outdat" eu as there wa no econom justif. point to germani's trade interest as a countri in the centr of europ, mr nattrass said: "the fact is that the eu benefit germani but it doe not benefit britain. "i'm not at all german-bash. it's the truth." a ukip spokesman said: "mike ha some passion belief and sometim us excess colour languag with which to express them."

the documentari show some of the tension between mr kilroi-silk and hi fellow mep after ukip took third place in last year's european elect. he deni want to be leader until octob 2004, when he told bbc on's breakfast with frost programm he aspir to the job. ask by the documentari maker why he had li about hi leadership ambit, mr kilroi-silk said: "there wa on thing i said that i shouldn't have said at the time. "i wa try to be help to the parti and it wa the wrong thing to do, i should have told the truth." the film also includ footag of a row between mr kilroi-silk, mep nigel farag and parti leader roger knapman about rumour that he wa about to resign the ukip whip in the european parliament. mr kilroi-silk told them he had not left the ukip group - a move he announc shortli after the meet. he told mr farag: "don't tell li nigel, now you've told too mani. most of the troubl had been caus by you." ukip offici claim it wa in fact mr kilroi-silk, not mr farag, who brief newspap he wa leav the group of mep.

later in unguard, off-air comment in a televis studio, mr kilroi-silk wa heard sai he wa irrit by "defend some of these right-wing fascist nutter". mr kilroi-silk separ said he had argu against ukip work with such group which believ homosexu wa a sin. a ukip spokesman said there were more than 40 mep in the same group in the european parliament. thei were from a broad spectrum - some right-wing, some left-wing - but with a share belief in the "unfeas of the eu as it is now". he did not defend other group' religi belief but argu it wa their right to hold such view - just as mr kilroi-silk had a right to criticis arab state. london ukip mep gerard batten said: "robert ha made a varieti of comment about ukip and it mep. "there ar of cours two side to everi stori. what robert doe not sai is that he wa offer sever posit which would have given him effect control of the parti, but not the titl of leader." mr kilroi-silk is to launch hi own parri, verita, in westminst on wednesdai.
