kilroi launch 'verita' parti

ex-bbc chat show host and east midland mep robert kilroi-silk said he want to "chang the face of british polit" as he launch hi new parti. mr kilroi-silk, who recent quit the uk independ parti, said "our countri" wa be "stolen from us" by mass immigr. he told a london new confer that verita - latin for "truth" - would avoid the old parti' "li and spin". ukip leader roger knapman sai he is glad to see the back of mr kilroi-silk.

mr kilroi-silk promis a "firm but fair" polici on immigr and said thei hope to contest most seat at the forthcom gener elect. he said verita would also announc detail polici on crime, tax, pension, health and defenc over the next few week. labour campaign spokesman fraser kemp said verita wa join "an alreadi crowd field on the right of british polit". on thursdai mr kilroi-silk is due to announc which constitu he will run in at the next gener elect - that will come amid specul he ha hi sight set on defenc secretari geoff hoon's ashfield seat. he wa join in the new ventur by on of ukip's two london assembl member, damien hocknei who is now verita' deputi leader. ukip's chairman petrina holdsworth ha said the group will just be a parodi of the parti the men have left.

mr kilroi-silk quit ukip last week after month of tension as he vi unsuccessfulli for the leadership of that parti. he said he wa asham to be a member of a ukip whose leadership had "gone awol" after the great opportun offer by it third place at last june's european elect. "while ukip ha turn it back on the british peopl, i shall not," he said. "i will be stand at the next gener elect. i shall be lead a vigor campaign for the caus i believ in. "and, unlik the old parti, we shall be honest, open and straight."

mr hocknei also left ukip sai mr kilroi-silk would "deliv better" as the leader of a euroscept parti. a spokesman for ukip call on mr hocknei to quit the london assembl. the parti assert that mr hocknei "ha a moral oblig, if not a legal on" to stand down. it leader, roger knapman, ha said he is glad to see the back of mr kilroi-silk. "he ha remark abil to influenc peopl but, sadli, after the [european] elect it becam clear that he wa more interest in the robert kilroi-silk parti than the uk independ parti so it wa nice know him, now 'goodby'," he said. ukip offici also argu mr kilroi-silk ha not been "straightforward" in attack the parti he onc want to lead.

verita? it's the bnp in an expens suit!

it's all well and good robert kilroi-silk claim, that 'verita' is a parti that doesn't believ in "li and spin", but the truth of the matter is, it complet useless, due to proport represent, there is no chanc that 'verita' will have ani chanc in claim power, and chang the two-hors race trend. in my opinion thi is just a public stunt which ha just been us as a smoke-screen for hi anti-islam slur which got him sack from the televis.

i think that hi view regard immigr ar share by mani. it realli is time that the uk govern ceas to be a paper tiger on thi issu. in addit as an ashfield constitu i would be more than interest in kilroi -silk oppos geoff hoon!!

good to see the parti of the right splinter in the wai the parti of the left have alwai done. let's hope kilroi-silk, ukip and the euro-sceptic wing of the tori parti all fade further into obscur so we can have some truth in the debat about europ. we benefit enorm from our membership of the eu, we need to be at the heart of europ, lead it and drive it to where we as a countri want to go, not run awai from it.

all mouth and trouser. a clown. troubl is, ani vote he collect mai just end up help new labour into a third term.

whatev kilroi-silk and ukip do, none of their anti-european polici have ani relev outsid middl england. thi new parti might gain support from right-wing england, but will have littl impact in wale or scotland.

hopefulli thi all thi fight within euro-sceptic parti will allow them to slip out of the wai and get peopl vote for real polit parti which address more than on issu. england need europ to surviv and as soon as peopl realis thi the better, we can't reli on the usa forev!

at last an impetu for increas the like 40% turn out for the elect. the elector is disillus with british polit. kilroi ha on agenda - the uk - and i'll be vote for him.

both ukip and rk-s ar repres of small-minded and a lack of vision for the whole of humankind. the interest of human and the world lie so much beyond the scope of these peopl's bicker that who, in the overal scheme of thing, realli care about their petti tiff?

mani peopl believ you kilroi. you mai even believ yourself but switch hors midstream and then bad mouth the steed that got you halfwai serious diminish your credibl.

the veri idea of polit parti born out of such neg feel as eurosceptic or british supremaci is nauseat. on can onli hope the public recognis these extremist for what thei ar and shun them at the poll.

i've alwai thought that kilroi-silk wa a self-publicis, egotist and thi new doe absolut noth to alter my opinion.

brilliant, about time thi countri had a plausibl parti!

have seen the recent bbc 3 documentari and wit the thoroughli disgrac chauvinist behaviour of a number of senior ukip figur i can well understand why kilroi-silk feel embarrass to be associ with such peopl. hopefulli the ukip member who ar interest in the polit debat will support hi action.

fantast new. pro-european now have far less to worri about from the right. the conserv ar as confus as thei have been sinc the mid-1990s, and the extrem anti-european ar fractur themselv into splinter group that split ani vote thei might get in local, european and gener elect. robert kilroi-silk's ego and vaniti ar hi own (and hi support') worst enemi.

as a euro-enthusiast i could not be more delight by kilroi-silk's behaviour. he took a parti that wa just build up a head of steam, and have expos it to ridicul by attempt a coup-d'etat, he is now set about the seriou busi of divid it in two. the closer to straight-down-the-middl the better, as far as i am concern, but in ani eventu, the two sceptic parti will exhaust their energi fight each other.

if everi politician with ambit to lead their parti resort to form their own for that purpos, we'd have ballot paper a mile long! you've got to hand it to kilroi-silk for hi sheer arrog and suprem self-belief.

whilst not be a great fan of kilroi i do agre with hi comment about the ukip leadership, and like him i am also leav ukip. i believ countless opportun have been lost to discredit the eu and to show our peopl what belong to the eu realli mean. the eu's comment last week about michael howard's plan to reform immigr show how littl we govern our own countri when thei can turn round and sai immigr is a matter for the eu and not individu member state. the sooner we leav thi corrupt super-state the better

doe anyon els think that it is iron that euro-sceptic kilroi-silk ha us a latin name for hi new parti, rather than a 'good old british' name? is thi indic of the man - contradictori, vain and pompou?

i think mr kilroi-silk ha got a veri good point. british polit ha becom too pc and as a result ha no straight talk honest strong politician. thei ar all interest in their own career and not the peopl who put them in power. as a result i feel our democraci is be abus and i want it stop. if mr kilroi-silk live up to half hi promis he will get my vote.

honestli, who realli care? man with tan leav parti with no plan, to set up parti with no idea.

as on of kilroi-silk's east midland constitu i hope those who vote for him ar proud to have been taken in by such charm vacuiti. i feel insult by have him repres me in the european parliament.

ukip tri hard to accommod robert kilroi silk, but he made it clear that onli control of it would satisfi him. someon so keen on complet control wa bound to fall foul of ukip's democrat natur.

kilroi is an abl commun and a capabl politician, in exactli the wai those who lead ukip ar not. he tri to make it work, but thei didn't seem to want to grow up. he wa left in the posit of have to defend their gaff to the media. thi new parti seem a logic next step for kilroi. good luck to the man, i sai.

oh pleas! thi is an amus irrelev. there is absolut no chanc of either of these parti commun a sensibl and construct 'euroscept' argument. thei will plai a kei part in win the countri round to the idea of a reform, more democrat, more dynam europ union. futur gener will thank him for hi ridicul.

the refresh thing about robert is that he is open, honest and straight. what other politician can claim thi. i have a suspicion that he talk for a larger part of the elector that hi critic would like. i shall be vote for him.

the elector of the east midland vote not for kilroi-silk but for the ukip. kilroi-silk wa made an mep becaus of hi posit on the ukip's parti list. he ha no mandat to repres the area and should resign from the european parliament.

i wouldn't write off kilroi-silk. while he's a clown and a on man band at the moment, he's a populist and that's alwai danger.the man clearli ha an enorm ego and look at our current polit master, that seem to be on of the factor in success.

good luck to kilroi though i think he is do more harm than good for both hi new parti and ukip becaus their vote base is not strong enough for both parti to be success and at the moment ukip have the upper hand while verita ar start from squar on and fight a somewhat uphil battl.

the man i onc found cring worthi on dai time tv, could well turn out to be my countri's knight in shine armour. he express view which ar now more than common amongst societi todai - but peopl ar almost too scare to express them. kilroi silk ha secur my vote, and mani more like me. what's more, i look forward to the dai when he claim victori, wreck the eu, and rescu my great nation... without a hair out of place and hi tan as perfect as ever!

great stuff. the longer the uk dither over europ, the richer we in ireland becom, as the onli english-speak countri fulli commit to europ. oh and send us over those hard-work immigr - our economi need them.

thi is just what the europhil prai for. as the main euroscept parti, ukip should try to resolv it differ with kilroi to show a unit front and give the uk public a seriou polit voic against europ. have multipl parti with the same view point just split the vote further.

thank good that kilroi-silk ha gone - now ukip at least ha a chanc in the elect!

it is veri sad to see the caus of britain regain it proper relationship with europ damag by thi split within ukip. robert kilroi-silk could have a lot to offer. instead we have a split parti and a damag caus. under the present elector system, peopl must work togeth, and small parti have no hope of represent. last summer, ukip achiev a major advanc, partli and onli partli due to kilroi-silk. it is a great shame thi ha been dissip in in-fight.

ukip ha a wide platform of polici, not just withdraw from the eu. thi kilroi-silk conveni ignor in the comment surround the launch of hi own parti. neither the english democrat nor the new parti were interest in let him join them and take over their leadership speak volum. verita is the begin of the end for kilroi-silk.

if he believ in truth and democraci then he and the two assembl member should resign and forc a by-elect to stand on their own platform rather than thi backdoor approach to polit of be elect for on parti then defect to anoth.

so ukip wa good enough for him to lead, not good enough for him to follow!

interest that a parti commit to plain speak should have a latin name!

everi opinion poll point to an overwhelm anti-europ feel in thi countri. kilroi-silk could be on the verg of someth huge if he can broaden hi appeal beyond thi on issu. he is an extrem abl commun with year of polit experi. we want qualiti school, top hospit, clean and effici public transport, punish that fit the crime, limit asylum, a purg on bureaucraci and less tax. it need courag and honesti, two qualiti sadli lack in our politician. kilroi-silk mai just have those veri qualiti. recruit the right colleagu, robert, and your time mai have come!

well if you cannot get enough limelight be an ordinari mp then go out and start up your own parti. it's all flash and no real polici here

let's hope thi is the start of both ukip and kilroi-silk slip into obscur.

verita? the name will doom it. but perhap i am wrong for sure all modern schoolchildren will understand it sinc thei do still learn latin in the classroom do thei not? the whole essenc of what rk repres is eurosceptic, so explain to me how the too-twee label of verita symbolis that?
