'debat need' on donat cap

a cap on donat to polit parti should not be introduc yet, the elect watchdog ha said.

fear that big donor can bui polit favour have spark call for a limit. in a new report, the elector commiss sai it is worth debat a £10,000 cap for the futur but now is not the right time to introduc it. it also sai there should be more state fund for polit parti and candid should be abl to spend more on elect campaign.

there were almost £68m in report donat to polit parti in 2001, 2002 and 2003, with nearli £12m of them from individu gift worth more than £1m. the rule have alreadi been chang so the public can see who give how much to the parti but the report sai there ar still public suspicion. the commiss sai cap donat would mean taxpay give parti more cash - someth which would first have to be accept to the public and shown to work. "while we ar not in principl oppos to the introduct of a donat cap, we do not believ that such a major departur from the exist system now would be sensibl," sai it report. if there wa to be a cap, it should be £10,000 - a small enough amount to make a differ but which would have ban £56m in donat between 2001 and 2003.

even without chang the commiss doe urg polit parti to seek out more small-scale donat and suggest there should be incom tax relief for gift under £200. it also suggest increas state fund for parti to £3m so help can be extend to all parti with at least two member in the hous of common, european parliament, scottish parliament, welsh assembl or northern ireland assembl. and it suggest new wai of boost elect campaign, seen as a wai of improv voter turnout. all local elect candid should be entitl to a free mailshot for campaign leaflet, sai the watchdog. and there should be a shift in the amount of monei allow to be spent at elect from a nation level to a local level to help politician engag better with voter.

the report suggest doubl the monei which can be spent by candid, while cut nation spend limit from £20m to £15m. the commiss also sai the spend limit for gener elect should cover the four month befor the poll - as happen with other elect. elector commiss chairman sam younger said: "there is no doubt that polit parti have a vital role to plai in maintain the health of our democraci and for thi thei need to be adequ resourc. "our research ha shown that peopl want to be more inform about parti polit and that thei want politician to be more visibl and access. "the public ar reluct for the state to fund parti but at the same time ar unhappi with larg privat donat." he call for a wider public debat on parti fund to find the consensu need for radic chang to the current system.
