tax must be trust - kennedi

public trust in tax is break down becaus labour and tori ar not be straight with peopl on the issu, lib dem leader charl kennedi ha said.

a dai ahead of the govern's pre-budget report, mr kennedi us a speech to sai hi parti wa face up to "pain econom realiti". he said the current level of taxat wa about right, although he would put a new 50% tax on top earner. other parti have accus the lib dem of make uncost promis. mr kennedi made it clear he wa determin to counter that accus. the lib dem have alreadi publish what thei sai ar the full cost for all their plan and wednesdai's speech did not announc new polici.

speak at the commonwealth club, mr kennedi said it wa critic for a polit parti to have econom credibl, both on what it promis and what it wa expect to deliv. he said. "budget have to add up. tough choic ar need in public spend." the lib dem would cut "low prioriti" spend, includ the govern's id card scheme and the child trust fund.

those cutback would free up fund for increas basic state pension for over-75s, put more polic on the street and reintroduc fee ey and dental check, he said. the lib dem argu thei were honest about tax in the past by call for a 1p rise on incom tax. now thei sai the onli simpl tax rise thei want is a new 50% tax band for top earner to pai for scrap univers tuition fee, provid free person care for elderli and disabl peopl and keep local tax down. there would also be a local incom tax to replac council tax and a number of chang to environment tax to ensur it is the "pollut who pai".

the lib dem sai the tori have onli laid out possibl option for cut tax to grab headlin while labour ha hidden most of it tax rise. mr kennedi said: "that contract with the peopl - that the govern will onli tax fairli and will spend their monei wise - can onli be sustain if the polit parti ar straightforward about their plan. "with the stealth tax strategi of gordon brown, the obviou unfair of our current tax system - especi the council tax, and the empti promis of the conserv parti on thi issu - it is no wonder that trust in taxat is break down." he challeng the treasuri to open up it book so the nation audit offic can report on the govern's perform.

conserv co-chairman liam fox said: liam fox said "if charl kennedi is seriou about make hi budget add up he should start by explain how thei would fund their 100 spend commit. "the realiti is, the lib dem lack the courag to tackl wast and bureaucraci, and the onli peopl who would face 'tough choic' would be the famili who would be £630 wors off a year. " and chancellor gordon brown said the lib dem figur did not add up. he accus the parti of claim it would spend less while across the countri commit itself to spend more.
