gallowai target 'new labour' mp

georg gallowai is to stand against pro-iraq war labour mp oona king at the next gener elect.

mr gallowai, who on thursdai won £150,000 in libel damag from the daili telegraph said he would contest bethnal green, in london, for respect. the glasgow kelvin mp, who wa expel from labour over hi anti iraq war stanc, accus ms king of be a "new labour stoog". ms king said she wa "delight" at the chanc to take on mr gallowai.

mr gallowai's current constitu is set to disappear under plan boundari chang in scotland.

the 50-year-old mp launch respect, the uniti coalit, in januari along with 1,000 anti-war activist, and the muslim associ of britain. the parti's declar aim ar an end to the occup of iraq, the repeal of anti-union law and the end of privatis. speak from a cafe in brick lane, east london, mr gallowai said he had accept the parti's invit to stand with "great honour and pride".

he ad: "here in thi constitu of bethnal green and bow there is a new labour stoog mp. "a stoog who will sing ani song, make ani speech, do ani danc, do anyth she is told to by toni blair - irrespect of how her constitu ar advers affect or how strongli thei feel to the contrari." ms king ha repres the constitu sinc 1997. she said: "i'm delight i've been given the chanc to finish him (mr gallowai) off, and believ me i will. "i know mani peopl around the countri will be grate, not least hi constitu in scotland who he ha shamelessli abandon." in june's european parliament elect, respect fail to gain enough vote for an mep but did come first in tower hamlet borough, most of which is cover by the common constitu of bethnal green and bow.

a month later it gain a council seat in a by-elect in st dunstan's and stepnei green ward, tower hamlet. mr gallowai said that in next year's expect gener elect and local elect a year later, the parti would "turn the east end of london into a fortress". both the conserv and the liber democrat have chosen prospect parliamentari candid for bethnal green and bow from the bangladeshi popul, which make up almost half the elector. the telegraph wa su for libel by mr gallowai after the newspap claim he receiv monei from saddam hussein's regim in iraq. the newspap said it wa in the public interest to publish the claim, base on document found in baghdad. mr justic eadi said he wa "oblig to compens mr gallowai... and to make an award for the purpos of restor hi reput".
