elect deal falter over heath role

the tori fail to hold onto power in 1974 after liber demand sir edward heath quit in return for co-oper.

document releas after 30 year reveal the fail negoti by the then prime minist follow the dramat februari gener elect. liber leader jeremi thorp appear will to form a coalit govern. but it partli collaps over the conserv leader's own role, prompt the queen to ask harold wilson to form a labour govern. the februari 1974 gener elect surpris the nation when it creat a hung parliament with no parti in overal control. sir edward had gone to the countri for a fresh mandat amid the spiral econom crisi, a miner' strike and the subsequ three-dai week. labour emerg with the most seat - but it 301 mp were 17 short of the number mr wilson need to form a major.

sir edward, who had receiv more vote but had fewer mp, believ he had the author to remain at number 10 provid the 14 liber mp would support hi govern. he said the liber could keep out labour in three wai: lend ad hoc support to hi minor govern, help draw up the govern's programm, or have up to three cabinet member in a coalit with the conserv. accord to the document releas at the nation archiv, the "friendli and easi" first meet indic that both sir edward and mr thorp thought thei had the make of a deal. mr thorp wa in high spirit, have just led hi parti to a histor jump in support. he also argu for a grand coalit of all three main parti. but sir edward said that wa imposs becaus the labour left wa set against it and the pair settl on try for a conserv-liber pact.

hour later sir edward's hope of a deal unravel as mr thorp's colleagu refus to support him. "jeremi said he wa encount a rather embarrass problem with hi colleagu about the prime minist person," read a telephon memo for mr heath.

"thei feel thei could not agre to serv as long as he is the prime minist. "ask if thi wa hi own view he said - no it wa not, i am veri close to ted and thought he wa by far the most abl man we had and he would be perfectli happi to serv - it wa onli some of hi colleagu who were be difficult." the follow dai, the stickl point had clearli becom two-fold: mr thorp's colleagu want elector reform and sir edward's resign. mr thorp told sir edward: "i am sorri thi is obvious hell - a nightmar on stilt for you. "somehow i person hope that we can work someth out."

four hour later, sir edward call the liber leader back to down street in a last attempt at a deal. the minut of the meet show how the chanc of a coalit govern quickli evapor. "the pm said he wa bound to tell mr thorp that hi colleagu had told him that thei would not agre to serv under ani other prime minist. mr thorp wa at liberti to verifi thi by talk to on or two of the prime minist's colleagu." document show that sir edward mull over resign and perhap return to coalit govern in a labour-led coalit. but he alreadi knew mr wilson would not form a coalit with either the liber or the conserv becaus of the opposit of the labour left. within hour of hi final talk with mr thorp, sir edward told the nation he wa resign and the queen invit mr wilson to form a new minor govern.
