labour battl plan 'hide blair'

the tori have accus toni blair of be "terrifi" of scrutini after labour unveil detail of how it will fight the next gener elect.

in a break with tradit, the parti will ditch the leader's battl bu and daili press brief in westminst. instead mr blair will travel to kei citi and margin seat to deliv the parti's messag. labour elect chief alan milburn deni the parti wa try to "hide" the prime minist.

he promis "the most posit and upbeat elect campaign labour ha ever run". but tori co-chairman liam fox said labour's plan show mr blair wa "terrifi of face proper scrutini".

"at a time when the british peopl ar look for more account and open, thi govern turn it back on them; abandon plan to tour the countri and scare to face journalist in a press confer - it doe rather beg the question, 'what have thei got to hide?'" the gener elect is wide expect next mai and all the parti ar step up their campaign prepar. mr milburn said the economi would take centr stage in labour's campaign in what would be a "watersh" elect and the "last stand of the thatcherit". mr milburn said labour's slogan would be "britain is work - don't let the tori wreck it."

the tone of the campaign, said mr milburn, would be more convers than rhetor; more spontan less script; less nation more local and less base on issu and more concentr on peopl. the approach is particularli design to appeal to women voter, he said. mr milburn brush asid question over why the chancellor wa not present at the cabinet meet to discuss elect strategi particularli sinc such import wa be given to the economi. "i'm not privi to everybodi's diari," he said. mr brown ha head labour's prepar for previou poll but mr milburn is take that role thi time. in a break with the past, labour will not hold a daili new confer in london. it will not be a "battl bu" style campaign either, he said.

in previou elect, each parti leader ha had their own battl bu transport nation newspap, televis and radio report to stage campaign event around the countri. mr milburn said labour's media effort thi time would focu more on local newspap and broadcast, with everi local radio station given the chanc to interview the prime minist. mr milburn said there would also be a greater effort to set up face-to-face meet between minist and the elector. former down street media chief alastair campbel is also return to advis labour on media strategi and campaign.

mr milburn said no decis had been taken yet over whether david blunkett would have a promin role in the elect. liber democrat chief execut lord rennard suggest labour wa avoid new confer in london becaus it want less scrutini of it record and propos. "toni blair seem to have disappear from labour leaflet and broadcast," he said. "in contrast charl kennedi will featur promin in the liber democrat campaign right across the countri."
