campbel return to elect team

ex-down street media chief alastair campbel will return to the fold to strengthen labour's gener elect campaign, the parti ha confirm.

mr campbel ha consist made public hi keen to plai a part in the poll, expect in mai. both cultur secretari tessa jowel and deputi prime minist john prescott have welcom hi return. "he is a strong labour parti member," mr prescott told bbc on's breakfast with frost programm.

mr campbel quit number 10 in august 2003 after be toni blair's right-hand man at the 1997 and 2001 elect. labour have refus to discuss hi exact new posit and have not said how it would affect hi down street replac david hill. "of cours alastair's go to be part of the elect campaign and i think that all of us who will also be part of the elect campaign ar veri pleas about that," ms jowel told sky new.

but she said hi return would not put anybodi els's "nose out of joint". "thi is the daft thing about the wai in which polit is written about," ms jowel ad. "there's room for everybodi. we serv the countri better if we make room for all the talent." a labour sourc told the sundai time mr campbel would "effect front" the elect media campaign but said he would be given no formal titl.

labour strategist told the paper he would be "set loos" on conserv leader michael howard in attack hi parti's econom record when it wa in power. "thei us pictur from the 1970s in the 1992 campaign to remind peopl of the winter of discont - and now it's our turn," the sourc told the paper. "make michael howard leader give us an unmiss opportun to remind peopl what it wa like to pai mortgag rate of 15% even if it wa more than a decad ago." mr campbel wa at the centr of the govern's row with bbc over andrew gilligan's stori about the iraq weapon dossier. the hutton inquiri clear him of "sex up" the dossier in the run-up to the iraq war. sinc leav down street, he ha tour the countri with hi on man show, an audienc with alastair campbel and present a number of interview programm for channel 4.
