stalem in pension strike talk

talk aim at avert nation strike over pension reform have end without agreement after 90 minut.

five public sector union met deputi prime minist john prescott at the labour spring confer in gateshead. thei want the govern to withdraw regul - due to be introduc in week - which would rais the pension ag for council worker from 60 to 65. up to 1.4 million worker could take part in strike earmark for 23 march. discuss will resum next week.

a spokesman for unison, britain's biggest union, said after saturdai's meet: "at least we ar still talk." all side ar anxiou to avoid a major confront in the run up to the gener elect, said bbc labour affair correspond stephen cape. in four dai, unison will start ballot 800,000 local govern worker on strike. other public sector union have pledg to follow. the five union which met mr prescott want the govern to withdraw these regul. thi would allow month of tough negoti to follow, said our correspond. but a spokesman for mr prescott warn that the chang to the local govern pension scheme would have to go ahead in april.

privat minist believ thi will be the "less pain" option, our correspond ad. the public and commerci servic union (pc) will co-ordin ani industri action with up to six other public sector union. pc leader mark serwotka warn last week that there could be further walkout unless there wa a govern rethink. "for a govern that lectur everyon on choic - choic on public servic, choic on thi and choic on that - isn't it iron that thei're sai to public sector worker there is no choic," he said. "if you want the pension you were promis when you start you must work for an extra five year - that is work until peopl drop. "in the 20th centuri, it's complet unaccept."

unison's 800,000 worker, the transport and gener worker' union's 70,000 and amicu' 20,000 ar among those be ballot about a 23 march walkout. mr prescott held a privat meet with senior union figur last week. it is understood no deal wa offer in that meet but there wa room for further negoti.
