parti warn over 'grei vote'

polit parti cannot afford to take older uk voter for grant in the come elect, sai ag concern.

a survei for the chariti suggest 69% of over-55s sai thei alwai vote in a gener elect compar with just 17% of 18 to 24 year old. chariti boss gordon lishman said if a "decis blow" wa struck at the elect it would be by older voter who could be reli on to turn out. a total of 3,028 adult ag 18 or over were interview for the studi. mr lishman urg the next govern to boost state pension.

he also call for measur to combat ageism and build effect public servic to "support us all in an ag societi". "older peopl want to see manifesto commit that will make a differ to their live," mr lishman said. "polit parti must wake up to the fact that unless thei address the demand and concern of older peopl thei will not keep or attract their vote." in the survei carri out by icm research, 14% of peopl ag between 18 and 34 said thei never vote in gener elect. among the over-65s, 70% said thei would be certain to vote in an immedi elect, compar with 39% of peopl under 55. ag concern sai the over-55s ar "unit around" kei area of polici thei want the govern to focu on. for 57%, pension and the nh were kei issu, while the economi wa import for a third, and tax wa a crucial area for 25%.

the report wa welcom by conserv shadow pension secretari david willett. "the pension' voic must certainli be heard in the next elect as thei have never fit into blair's cool britannia," he said. "labour's continu refus to admit the true extent of the pension crisi will be on of the monument failur of thi govern." he point to tori plan to increas the basic state pension to reduc mean test, strengthen compani pension and encourag save. a liber democrat spokesman said the parti took the issu rais in the report veri serious. he highlight the parti's promis to rais the basic state pension, provid free long-term care for the elderli and replac council tax, seen as a particular problem for pension on fix incom. labour ha said it want to us save reform to incapac benefit to improv the basic state pension and ha set up a review of the council tax system.
