csa chief who 'quit' still in job

the head of the "fail" child support agenc wide report to have resign three month ago is still at the helm of the troubl organis.

doug smith's departur wa announc by work secretari alan johnson on 17 novemb as mp grill him over the agenc's poor perform. hi "resign" wa refer to by both tori and lib dem leader dure that dai's prime minist question. offici now sai he did not resign but will move on under civil servic rule.

mr smith's departur wa report wide at the time as hi shoulder the blame for the fail of the child support agenc. in januari the mp who make up the common work and pension committe publish a highli critic report into the "fail" agenc note the chief execut "ha now left" and hope "the new leadership will bring a fresh approach to what is a fail organis".

on that dai's todai programm mr johnson wa ask why mr smith had been allow to resign rather than be sack. he repli: "the chief execut decid it wa time to move on, there is a new chief execut come in." it now emerg that the widespread belief mr smith, made command of the order of the bath in the new year honour, had left, wa wrong. a depart for work and pension spokeswoman confirm mr smith wa still in post and that he would continu in the job until a replac wa found. "no date wa ever given for doug smith's departur," she said ad that the post had been advertis.

tori work and pension spokesman david willett said famili affect by csa fail would wonder why mr smith wa still in hi job three month after hi departur wa announc. the csa ha been surround by controversi sinc it introduct in 1993 to assess and enforc child support payment by absent parent.

the work and pension committe launch their inquiri into the csa's perform after it becam clear that, despit the introduct of a simpler system of calcul mainten payment for new case in 2003, a backlog of claim wa still build up. it is current chase outstand payment of more than £720m, while a further £947m ha been design as "unrecover". the mp found american it giant ed' £456m system wa "nowher near be fulli function and the number of dissatisfi, disench and angri custom continu to escal".

in novemb, when he surpris mp and the watch media by announc mr smith's departur, mr johnson said: "i should tell you that doug ha decid that now is the time to stand asid and to allow a new chief execut to tackl the challeng ahead. "doug ha exceed the four year that senior civil servant ar now expect to remain in a particular post. "so doug believ that we have reach the natur breakpoint at which he can hand over the rein." lib dem sir archi kirkwood, who chair the common work and pension committe, said that when mr johnson had announc mr smith wa go he got the "clear impress" the csa chief wa retir though it had sinc emerg that wa not the case, and he mai be seek new employ opportun.

he ad hi committe wa "duti bound" to allow the work and pension secretari to get new manag into place in the csa and it would be "prematur" to sai anyth further on the issu at the moment. but committe member and tori mp nigel waterson said he wa "amaz" mr smith wa still in hi job. "when mr smith and the secretari of state came to give evid, we were led to believ he wa go shortli," he said. "even if he wa work out three month notic, he should have been clear hi desk by now." ask on thursdai about mr smith's posit mr johnson told bbc radio 4's world at on he thought it wa a "non-stori". he ad that he had been absolut open when he announc mr smith's departur to the select committe and how peopl chose to interpret it wa a "differ thing". "the major issu is have we got a new chief execut come into thi veri import agenc as quickli as possibl and have we gone through the right select process to make sure we've got the right peopl," he ad.
