blair move to woo jewish voter

toni blair ha pledg to "never, ever, ever" attack tori leader michael howard over hi jewish belief.

the prime minist told the jewish chronicl: "if you look at what i do, i attack michael howard polit." mr blair also distanc himself from recent labour campaign poster featur mr howard, which critic claim were "anti-semit". these were "not intend to caus ani offenc to anyon on the jewish commun," mr blair insist.

on poster depict mr howard and hi shadow chancellor oliv letwin, who is also jewish, as fly pig. anoth pictur the tori leader swing a pocket watch on a chain, which critic said echo the jewish monei lender shylock in shakespear's merchant of venic.

other compar the imag to the charact fagin in charl dicken' oliv twist. labour ha sinc taken the design of it websit, sai member had prefer other design. dure hi interview with the jewish chronicl, mr blair said: "i've been a veri strong support of the jewish commun and israel, and will alwai be so." press on whether he would draw attent to mr howard's jewish belief in an attempt to attract muslim support, he repli: "the idea that i would allow anybodi to make such a charg is outrag. it's untru. "if you look what i do, i attack michael howard polit. i would never, ever, ever attack him on that basi."

mr blair also defend hi parti's attitud toward the jewish commun, point out that it wa hi govern that had introduc the holocaust memori dai. he ad that labour also aggress fought all form of racism.

neither the conserv nor the liber democrat wish to comment on mr blair's word. the prime minist wa speak as london's labour mayor ken livingston remain embroil in a row over comment he made to a jewish report from the citi's even standard newspap. mr blair repeat call for the mayor to apologis for liken the report, oliv finegold, to a concentr camp guard. mr livingston "should have withdrawn the comment immedi" onc he realis the journalist wa jewish, said mr blair. "i'm sure that is what in truth he want to do. well, he should do it." mr livingston ha said he could not sincer sai sorri for the comment he made, and claim he ha been target by the newspap. he conced hi comment mai have been offens but were not racist, and said earlier thi week he would not apologis even if mr blair ask.
