parti' plan for council tax

anger at council tax rise spill over into mass protest in 2003, when the averag english bill rose 12.9%.

pension' protest spread - some march, other simpli refus to pai the increas. some, such as 83-year-old elizabeth winkfield, said thei would rather go to jail. the audit commiss found the whole local govern financ system wa "fundament flaw" and all three of the main parti have said the system ha to chang.

labour sai it want to retain the properti-base tax but reform it to make it fairer and sai there is scope for council to becom more effici. thei sai thei ar alreadi help pension with council tax bill, with a £100 lump sum for the over-70s and last year the govern cap some local council' budget to keep demand down. deputi prime minist john prescott ha said the current system is not sustain in the long term and said there would be "radic reform". the parti sai thi year's increas will be the lowest in a decad. a report last year look at increas the number of council tax band and other form of local taxat, such as reform busi rate, although no decis have been made. an independ inquiri into it find, the lyon review, is due to report back at the end of 2005.

the tori have promis a reduct on bill for pension, who thei sai have been hardest hit by year-on-year increas in council tax. thei sai thei can save £4bn on "govern wast", of which £1.3bn could be us to cut pension' bill by an averag of £340. it would not be mean test, sai the tori, becaus that would creat more bureaucraci and could discourag peopl from save for their retir. instead household where council tax payer ar over 65 would get a rebat cover half their bill, up to a maximum of £500. the tori also sai thei ar suspici about ani propos to revalu home - current grade accord to their valu in 1991 - becaus thei believ seven million of home could move up a band.

the liber democrat want to do awai with the council tax altogeth and switch to a local incom tax of the kind seen in the usa, norwai and switzerland. the rate would be set local, but administ by the inland revenu which thei sai would save at least £300m. thei sai the council tax is the most unpopular and most unfair tax in britain, becaus it put a "ceil" on what the richest pai. the parti sai it would aim for a £5,000 tax-free person allow, or a £7,000 allow for the over-65s. after that incom would be tax up to £100,000. the lib dem sai their plan is fairer, more effici, ha alreadi been test abroad and offer more account.
