mp tout lord replac plan

a group of mp ha tri to rais the pressur on toni blair over reform to the hous of lord by publish a detail blueprint for chang.

the cross-parti group ha unveil a draft bill propos a smaller second chamber in which 70% of member would be elect. mp and peer have fail to agre on reform sinc 1999 when 600 hereditari lost their seat. the group sai it can win support for remov the last 92 hereditari. the govern postpon plan to remov the remain hereditari peer becaus thei said thei were unlik to succe after opposit in the lord. toni blair ha argu. there need to be consensu on reform. there have been suggest there will be propos for chang at least the power of the lord in labour's manifesto.

but the all-parti group, includ tori ken clark and sir georg young, labour's robin cook and toni wright and liber democrat paul tyler, is confid it plan would win support from a "larg major". and thei list former conserv leader william hagu and former labour leader neil kinnock as support of the plan. the group sai the british public and a clear major of mp support replac the lord with a larg-elect second chamber. their plan would see the hous of lord be renam the second chamber of parliament, and it member would be known as mscp.

there would be 385 mscp, includ 270 elect member, 87 appoint member and 16 bishop. thei would serv for between 12 and 14 year. mr cook said hold elect for mscp on the same dai as those for mp might help motiv the elector and increas voter turnout. he ad: "over the last year i have seen mani statement from senior figur of thi govern insist the public must have the right of choic. "what could be more import than a choic of the peopl who sit in our parliament?"

the group believ pressur is grow for chang and the govern's current posit is unsustain. it want all three main parti to includ a commit to a "larg democrat" second chamber in their manifesto. mr clark said the issu "went to the heart of reform the health of the british polit system". and mr tyler said the prime minist's view that there wa no agreement on the shape of the futur of the lord wa flaw. "the problem, i think, in the prime minist's mind is there doesn't appear to be a consensu that includ him," he said. "we ar provid a consensu". the elect the lord campaign said the draft bill wa an import contribut to the debat. "we believ thi draft bill is detail enough to form the basi of closer parliamentari scrutini," said co-ordin peter facei. "in lieu of ani other such clear propos, the govern must permit that to happen."
