iraq advic claim spark new row

the tori sai minist must respond in parliament to claim that the legal advic us to justifi the iraq war wa drawn up at number 10.

down street ha deni the claim, made in a new book about the attornei gener lord goldsmith's advic. lord goldsmith also deni them, sai he wa not "lean on" in ani wai. but the conserv and liber democrat sai thei want the public of the full legal advic given by the attornei gener.

the govern ha consist refus to publish lord goldsmith's advic on the legal of the war - sai such paper have alwai been kept confidenti.

but a short statement about lord goldsmith's posit wa present in a written parliamentari answer on 17 march 2003 - just befor a crucial common vote on the militari action. it said it wa "plain" iraq continu to be in materi breach of un resolut 1441. in hi new book, lawless world, philipp sand, a qc and intern law professor, suggest the parliamentari answer wa written in down street. accord to mr sand, lord goldsmith had warn toni blair in a document on 7 march 2003 that the us of forc against iraq could be illeg and that it would have been safer to seek a second un resolut sanction militari action.

mr sand told newsnight the govern had prepar a legal team to be abl to defend it case, in case legal action wa taken against the uk over the war. on 10 march, militari chief reportedli ask for an unequivoc statement about the legal of the war to make sure troop could be defend in a court of law. the book, be serialis in the guardian newspap, sai on 13 march lord goldsmith met then home offic minist lord falcon and down street advis baro morgan. "after that down street proceed to set out hi [lord goldsmith's] view in a parliamentari answer which wa then publish on 17 march," said mr sand.

tori leader michael howard reiter call for the public of the full legal advic given by the attornei gener, warn: "thi issu will not go awai." "these revel throw an intens spotlight on to the cavali wai in which thi govern oper - even on an issu as import as peac and war. "the govern need to act to restor public confid and trust." liber democrat foreign affair spokesman menzi campbel repeat hi parti's call for lord goldsmith's first piec of legal advic to be made public. "the public interest, which the govern claim justifi non-public of the whole of the advic, can onli be serv now by the fullest disclosur."

in a statement to newsnight, lord goldsmith said: "in my parliamentari answer on march 17 2003, i explain my genuin held independ view, that militari action wa law under the exist secur council resolut. "it wa certainli not a view that i express as a result of be lean on in ani wai, nor as i have alreadi made clear, wa it written by or at number 10." the prime minist's offici spokesman also reject the claim, sai: "the attornei gener made it clear the word and the judgement were hi." but ex-foreign secretari robin cook sai all the advic should now be publish. he said the claim suggest parliament had onli receiv a pr&#233;ci of lord goldsmith's second opinion - and that it wa actual draft in no 10. thi would be wrong even if lord goldsmith had sign the statement, mr cook said, becaus the attornei gener's advic should be an "independ legal opinion", not subject to "polit negoti of thi kind".
