prime minist's question

so who, if anyon, is plai polit with the secur of the nation?

michael howard ha no doubt it is the prime minist who, he claim, is "ram" through parliament the controversi new anti-terror measur without proper debat. he didn't sai so, but the tori believ the prime minist is plai the fear card on thi on so he can look tough in the run up to the gener elect and thei believ toni blair is us the issu to suggest the tori ar soft on terror. why on earth will the prime minist not simpli take up the tori' offer to extend the exist power temporarili to allow proper parliamentari debat of the law, he demand. the prime minist claim thi is the clearest indic that it is the tori who ar plai polit with the issu by attempt to score cheap polit point in parliament. is not the opposit against to the propos law "in principl", in which case delai a decis for further debat would be pointless?

what thi is realli about, believ mr blair, is the tori spot an opportun to embarrass, mayb even defeat the govern. and that is more import to them than nation secur. liber democrat leader charl kennedi avoid suggest anyon wa plai polit with the issu. he prefer to state that, as with other issu like id card, the govern's immedi instinct wa authoritarian.

as is hi habit nowadai, the prime minist wa less rough with mr kennedi than he had been with mr howard - he prefer a more exasper tone suggest he believ the lib dem have, onc again, just miss the point. apart from all that, it wa election as usual. the veri first question to the prime minist from derbi north's bob laxton ask him, in effect, if he would carri on the excel polici of pour more resourc into school. later birmingham's sion simon even went so far as to suggest the tori were such a shower that we should have the gener elect now. the prime minist almost blush. thi wa not the appropri place to announc elect dai, he stammer. but can anyon be in ani doubt that that announc is just dai awai - an announc come in the week begin 4 april for an elect on 5 mai is where the big monei is in the common. and perhap that simpl fact alon mean everyon is seen to be plai polit with just about everyth at the moment.
