goldsmith deni war advic claim

the attornei gener ha deni hi statement to parliament about the legal of the iraq war wa draft by down street offici.

lord goldsmith said lord falcon and baro morgan plai no part in draft the answer. he ad the answer repres hi view that the war wa legal, but wa not a summari of hi advic to the pm. the govern ha resist call to publish the full advic, sai such paper ar alwai kept confidenti.

in a statement, lord goldsmith said: "i wa fulli involv throughout the draft process and person finalis, and of cours approv, the answer." he said the answer had been prepar in hi offic with the involv of solicitor gener harriet harman, two of hi own offici, three foreign offic offici, a qc, christoph greenwood and the then lord chancellor, lord irvin of lairg.

"no other minist or offici wa involv in ani wai." he suggest the claim that lord falcon and ladi morgan had draft the answer were the result of a mi-transcript of hi evid to the butler inquiri into pre-war intellig. "as i have alwai made clear, i set out in the answer my own genuin held, independ view that militari action wa law under the exist (un) secur council resolut," he said. "the answer did not purport to be a summari of my confidenti legal advic to govern." former foreign secretari robin cook said lord goldsmith's admiss that hi parliamentari answer wa not a summari of hi legal opinion suggest parliament mai have been misl. "the attornei gener mai never have present hi answer as a summari, but other certainli did," he said. "what is clear from hi statement todai is that he doe not believ that it wa a full, accur summari of hi formal opinion."

earlier, toni blair dismiss question about the attornei gener's advic, and said hi parliamentari statement had been a "fair summari" of hi opinion. "that's what he (lord goldsmith) said and that's what i sai. he ha dealt with thi time and time and time again," mr blair told hi monthli new confer in down street. he refus to answer further question on the issu.

on the question of whether such paper have alwai been kept confidenti, tori mp michael mate, who is a member of the common intellig and secur committe and wa part of the butler inquiri, told the bbc: "that, as a gener rule, is right, but it's not an absolut rule." he said there had been other occas when advic had been publish, most recent regard princ charl's marriag plan. the govern could not pick and choos when to us the convent, he said. mr mate ad: "thi mai be on of those special occas... when it would be in the public interest to see the advic which the attornei gener gave to the prime minist."

the claim about lord falcon and baro morgan's involv were made in a book publish thi week by philipp sand qc, a member of cheri blair's matrix chamber. he also sai lord goldsmith warn toni blair on 7 march 2003 that the iraq war could be illeg without a second un resolut sanction militari action.

a short statement about lord goldsmith's posit present in a written parliamentari answer on 17 march 2003 - just befor a crucial common vote on the militari action - did not suggest thi. former minist clare short, who resign from the govern over the iraq war, said the ministeri answer wa the same statement that wa earlier shown to the cabinet as it discuss militari action. she said the full advic should have been attach, accord to the ministeri code, and demand a lord inquiri into the matter. the conserv and liber democrat sai thei still want the public of the full legal advic given by the attornei gener. lib dem foreign affair spokesman sir menzi campbel said lord goldsmith's statement still did not clear up the outstand issu. "if hi origin advic of 7 march accept that militari action might be illeg, how wa it that he resolv ani such doubt by the time the parliamentari answer wa publish on 17 march?" he said. "onli the fullest disclosur will now do."
