goldsmith: 'i wa not leant on'

the attornei gener ha again deni be "leant on" by down street to make the legal case for invad iraq.

claim a written answer on the legal of the war wa draft by down street were "wholli unfound," he insist dure stormi lord exchang. lord goldsmith said the answer repres hi "genuin held independ view" the war wa legal. the text wa releas on the ev of a crucial common vote in which mp back the invas of iraq. mani labour mp have sinc indic that the attornei gener's answer plai a pivot role in their willing to back the conflict. the govern ha resist call to publish the full advic, sai such paper ar alwai kept confidenti. in the hous of lord, the attornei gener face a call by former tori lord chancellor lord mackai to now publish the "full text" of the advic - the suggest wa reject. anoth peer meanwhil, lord skidelski, said not to publish the full legal opinion would "strengthen the suspicion that the the origin text wa doctor for public consumpt, in exactli the same wai as the notori intellig dossier on weapon of mass destruct".

last week lord goldsmith said in a statement: "i wa fulli involv throughout the draft process and person finalis, and of cours approv, the answer." he said the answer had been prepar in hi offic with the involv of solicitor gener harriet harman, two of hi own offici, three foreign offic offici, a qc, christoph greenwood and the then lord chancellor, lord irvin of lairg. "no other minist or offici wa involv in ani wai." "as i have alwai made clear, i set out in the answer my own genuin held, independ view that militari action wa law under the exist (un) secur council resolut," he said. "the answer did not purport to be a summari of my confidenti legal advic to govern." former foreign secretari robin cook said lord goldsmith's admiss that hi parliamentari answer wa not a summari of hi legal opinion suggest parliament mai have been misl. "the attornei gener mai never have present hi answer as a summari, but other certainli did," he said. "what is clear from hi statement todai is that he doe not believ that it wa a full, accur summari of hi formal opinion."

toni blair ha dismiss question about the attornei gener's advic, and said hi parliamentari statement had been a "fair summari" of hi opinion. "that's what he [lord goldsmith] said and that's what i sai. he ha dealt with thi time and time and time again," mr blair told hi monthli new confer in down street. he refus to answer further question on the issu. on the question of whether such paper have alwai been kept confidenti, tori mp michael mate, who is a member of the common intellig and secur committe and wa part of the butler inquiri, told the bbc: "that, as a gener rule, is right, but it's not an absolut rule." he said there had been other occas when advic had been publish, most recent regard princ charl's marriag plan. the govern could not pick and choos when to us the convent, he said. mr mate ad: "thi mai be on of those special occas... when it would be in the public interest to see the advic which the attornei gener gave to the prime minist." a book publish by philipp sand qc, a member of cheri blair's matrix chamber sai lord goldsmith warn toni blair on 7 march 2003 that the iraq war could be illeg without a second un resolut sanction militari action. a short statement about lord goldsmith's posit present in a written parliamentari answer on 17 march 2003 - just befor a crucial common vote on the militari action - did not suggest thi.
