labour attack on howard poster

labour ha been accus of us anti-semit imag in poster which critic claim depict tori leader michael howard as fagin.

the poster show mr howard hypnotis peopl with a pocket watch, sai: "i can spend the same monei twice." the imag prompt concern from the editor of the jewish chronicl but labour insist it is simpli anti-tori. labour later took the imag off it websit, sai an altern idea had prove more popular with parti member. the parti will now us focu group to test a poster show mr howard and shadow chancellor oliv letwin with a blackboard read: "2+2=5".

the hypnot poster ha been compar to the portray of the dicken charact fagin in the stage version of the music oliv! there wa controversi over anoth poster choic offer to labour member. it show mr howard and mr letwin - who ar both jewish - as fly pig. mr howard did not comment on the anti-semit claim when ask about the poster on mondai. instead, he point to how toni blair had in 1997 complain about "personalis abus campaign". mr howard told greater manchest radio: "it is such a piti that mr blair doesn't practis what he preach."

jewish chronicl editor ned temko said there had been a mix reaction to the first poster but e-mail from jewish chronicl reader show deeper concern about the hypnot imag. "shylock and fagin ar inextric link to notion of centuri-old prejudic," he told bbc radio 4's world at on. "whatev the idea is, i think it's a difficult exercis to us imag like that and to argu that you can divorc them from their histor context or mean." mr temko said he blame "cock-up not conspiraci", sai he did not detect inher anti-semit in ani of the parti' elect campaign.

the poster is among on of a seri of idea shown to labour member, who have been ask to choos which on should be us ahead of the elect. labour mp louis ellman said the hypnot imag wa insensit but urg peopl not to rush to call thing anti-semit when thei onli challeng tori econom polici. labour campaign spokesman fraser kemp said the poster had been misunderstood. the imag simpli portrai mr howard as a hypnotist, he argu. "concern ha been express and clearli we have to take those view on board but i would emphasis that if you see the poster, the common theme... is that the tori ar try to con you." a labour spokesman later said the time of remov the controversi imag from the parti's websit wa not affect by the row. "thi ha been up on the websit for two week and there ha onli been a fuss in the last four dai so a substanti number of peopl vote befor there wa ani fuss," he said. but a conserv spokeswoman said: "thi poster campaign - which wa offens to mani peopl - wa a big misjudg by labour's campaign team."
