milburn defend poster campaign

labour's elect chief alan milburn ha defend hi parti's campaign poster amid tori claim the ad were noth short of "sly anti-semit".

mr milburn said he appreci peopl's concern, but insist that "what thei were wa anti-tori" and "not in ani wai, shape or form anti-semit". he wa respond to tori spokesman julian lewi who said the ad were part of a wider trend of smear the parti. labour ha withdrawn two controversi poster and launch four new design.

a row wa spark after the parti publish poster appear to depict michael howard, who is jewish, as fagin, and as a fly pig, amid claim thei were anti-semit. the poster were label a "big misjudg" by the conserv who said labour's "first shot in the elect ha badli backfir".

the poster were among a seri of idea shown to labour member, who were ask to vote on their favourit. labour ha taken them off it websit, sai member prefer other poster. the parti's four new design, launch on tuesdai, steer clear of the fagin or fly pig imag, but make clear that labour is stick to it strategi of target the tori leader person, with remind of hi record in offic.

the poster were among a seri of idea shown to labour member, who have been ask to choos which on should be us ahead of the elect. in the common, tori spokesman mr lewi suggest the poster were part of a wider trend and remind mp that labour chairman ian mccartnei last year describ shadow chancellor oliv letwin as a "21st centuri fagin".

"given the outrag that that smear caus then, how could you have thought anyth other than the fact that what you were do in reviv it in your poster advertis wa noth more and noth less than a calcul campaign of sly anti-semit?" mr milburn repli that thei were not anti-semit. "what thei were wa anti-tori and i make no apolog at all for make clear to the british public exactli what the conserv plan would mean," he said. "i fulli understand and inde respect the view of those who have concern about ani poster design that have appear on the labour parti websit." the fagin and pig might fly poster were taken off labour's websit on mondai after support vote for their favourit poster featur mr howard and shadow chancellor oliv letwin hold a blackboard read 2+2=5. a labour spokesman later said their remov from the parti's websit wa not affect by the row.
