kilroi name elect seat target

ex-chat show host robert kilroi-silk is to contest the derbyshir seat of erewash at the next gener elect.

labour's elizabeth blackman won the seat in 1997 and ha a 6,932 major. she sai she will fight on her record "as a hard-work constitu mp". mr kilroi-silk announc hi plan a dai after launch hi new parti, verita, the latin for truth. the east midland mep, who quit the uk independ parti, want hi new group to "chang the face" of uk polit. hi choic of elect constitu quash specul that he would stand against defenc secretari geoff hoon in ashfield, nottinghamshir. ukip won 31% of the vote in erewash in last june's european elect - with mr kilroi-silk among their candid for the region. until 1997, erewash had been held by the tori sinc 1970. ms blackman said she wa proud of the govern's achiev in the area. she declin to give her view of mr kilroi-silk at thi point.

on thursdai, he told a london new confer that verita would avoid the old parti' "li and spin". he said "our countri" wa be "stolen from us" by mass immigr and promis a "firm but fair" polici on immigr. verita sai it hope to contest most seat at the forthcom gener elect but plan to announc detail polici on crime, tax, pension, health and defenc over the next few week.

ukip leader roger knapman sai he is glad to see the back of mr kilroi-silk. labour campaign spokesman fraser kemp said verita wa join "an alreadi crowd field on the right of british polit". mr kilroi-silk wa join in the new ventur by on of ukip's two london assembl member, damien hocknei, who is now verita' deputi leader.

ukip's chairman petrina holdsworth ha said the group will just be a parodi of the parti the men have left. mr kilroi-silk quit ukip last week after month of tension as he vi unsuccessfulli for the leadership of that parti. he said he wa asham to be a member of a ukip whose leadership had "gone awol" after the great opportun offer by it third place at last june's european elect. ukip's leader, roger knapman, ha said he is glad to see the back of mr kilroi-silk. "he ha remark abil to influenc peopl but, sadli, after the [european] elect it becam clear that he wa more interest in the robert kilroi-silk parti than the uk independ parti so it wa nice know him, now 'goodby'," he said. ukip offici also argu mr kilroi-silk ha not been "straightforward" in attack the parti he onc want to lead.
