immigr to be elect issu

immigr and asylum have normal been issu politician from the big parti have tipto around at elect time.

but no longer. both labour and the tori have signal their intent of make them central to their elect campaign. thei have been struck by the level of concern amongst voter about the issu, with intern survei show thei have the potenti to swing larg number of vote. that wa also true at the last gener elect and the issu did briefli becom a campaign issu. but it spark the probabl predict furor with claim politician were either stoke up xenophobia or, altern, run scare of address the problem. but thi time around it look set to be on of the core battleground with both the big parti compet to set out tough polici.

the tori ar alreadi commit to impos annual limit on immigr, with a quota for asylum seeker and with applic process outsid the uk. labour ha alreadi brand the propos unwork but parti strategist have seen the tori seiz a poll advantag over the issu.

now home secretari charl clark ha come up with altern propos for a point system to ensur onli immigr who can benefit the economi will be grant entri, and to kick out more fail asylum seeker. that ha been attack by the tori as too littl, too late and for fail to tackl the kei issu of the number enter the uk. the liber democrat have not been drawn too deepli into the argument but have call for a europ-wide polici on immigr.

but, while all the parti appear to agre the time ha come to properli debat and address the issu, there ar alreadi sign thei will run into precis the same problem as befor. former union leader sir bill morri ha alreadi accus both the big parti of engag in a "bid war about who can be nastiest to asylum seeker".

"my concern is that, whilst the labour parti and the conserv parti will take a construct approach to the debat, right-wing polit parti, pick up on statement like `burden to britain' will exploit thi and creat a lot of fear and uncertainti". it is precis that concern - and the possibl suggest the issu is plai to the far right's racist agenda - that will provok strong reaction from mani concern with thi issu. the challeng for the big parti is to ensur thei can engag in the debat dure the cut and thrust of a gener elect while also avoid that trap.
