kennedi begin pre-elect tour

liber democrat leader charl kennedi ha begun a week-long tour to persuad voter thei ar the "real opposit".

mr kennedi is visit constitu in somerset and hampshir on mondai - rural seat where hi parti is hope to make gain from the conserv. later he will visit place, such as liverpool, where labour is target. labour sai a lib dem vote could "let the tori in", while the tori sai the lib dem would mean "higher tax, soft crime law, more power to europ". mr kennedi's tour come as he, labour leader toni blair and conserv leader michael howard all step up campaign ahead of the next gener elect, wide expect to be held on 5 mai. on tuesdai mr kennedi will visit leicest south, where lib dem mp parmjit singh gill overturn a big labour major to win the seat in last year's by-elect.

stop in shrewsburi, north dorset, liverpool, manchest, basingstok and west london ar plan for later in the week. the liber democrat sai in the northern citi, the race is between them and labour, while in southern seat - particularli the south west - it is between them and the tori. speak to the bbc's westminst hour on sundai, mr kennedi said the upcom gener elect - wide tip for 5 mai - would be much more unpredict than ani other in "recent experi". ask whether it wa realist to assum the liber democrat could win the gener elect, he said: "there's no limit to the ambit we have as a parti. "but we have got to be respons, we have got to be credibl, we have got to demonstr to peopl that we ar up to that task."

mr kennedi said the british public felt let down by labour on issu from iraq to top-up fee and the conserv were not "ask the critic question". and he said peopl were "highli sceptic" about labour and conserv promis on tax. but he brush off labour suggest a vote for hi parti would mean let the tori in "by the back door". "if you look at the four previou parliamentari by-elect, the liber democrat have demonstr that, not onli can we leapfrog the conserv where we start in a third place posit, but we can go on to defeat the govern. "that's go to be the stori, i think, of thi come gener elect."
