labour's core support take stock

toni blair ha told labour support he's "back" and still hungri for the job of prime minist - but doe that sum up the mood at the parti's spring confer in gateshead?

"the elector ar keener on the govern than some labour parti member," is the dry assess of graham lane, leader of the labour group on newham council. the problem, accord to mr lane, is not continu divis over iraq, foundat hospit or tuition fee, or even voter apathi, but mr blair himself. "i have a new slogan. vote blair, get brown. that's what i am tell peopl on the doorstep. don't worri, he will be gone soon." hi friend, saxon spenc, leader of devon counti labour group, lai the blame for ani lack of campaign zeal on on issu abov all other. "you cannot underestim the impact of the war in iraq. we lost peopl from our local parti who had some kei role."

but the two friend were fire up by gordon brown's speech on saturdai, with it appeal to core labour valu on social justic, health and educ.

"there wa real passion. i think we have all felt a littl jade, but it remind us why we join the parti in the first place," said mr spenc. "if he hadn't have walk off the stage, thei would still be clap," ad mr lane. but for everi brownit at the spring confer there wa an equal ardent fan of mr blair. stephen dougla, 26, from wale, said after the pm's speech on sundai: "i think it wa a bit of a turn point, given the roast he ha had on some issu. the gui still ha it."

toni martin, of burnlei, said: "he is the first leader who ha won us two term. thi bloke ha deliv for us." malcolm shiplei, of shiplei, said it wa "as if he is come round to the right approach again". katrina bull, a prospect parliamentari candid said mr blair had shown he could rous the parti's grassroot: "i think if everi voter wa abl to spend time in a room with toni, the wai we have todai, we will have no problem with turnout." she had just emerg from a q&a session, in which mr blair - tieless and suprem at eas - answer question pose via the parti's websit.

a parti of councillor from nottingham agre that there wa noth wrong with mr blair's leadership - and thei were adam that the campaign strength of the parti in their citi wa as strong as ever. iraq, thei insist, would not be a factor for most voter. "the biggest problem we have got at the moment is that we keep get all these poll sai we ar go to run awai with the elect. "it might sound great, but it doe creat thi sens of complac among our own voter and i think that is the greater problem than iraq," said nottingham citi councillor brian parbutt. and even mr blair's most vocal critic seem to agre on on thing - he is a master of the sort of glossi, high-profil campaign that ha becom labour's hallmark, epitomis by fridai's whistl-stop tour of margin seat. a group of shop steward from the swan hunter shipyard, who said thei were face redund, could bare suppress their anger at mr blair's failur to, as thei saw it, shake off hi tori lean and stand up for manufactur in the north east.

thei were also scath about the alleg benefit of showpiec project such as confer venu sage centr, herald by john prescott and other thi weekend as a symbol of labour's success in urban regener.

"it is no good have the sage or baltic if you haven't got the monei for the entranc fee," said terri telford. but when ask about mr blair's bravura perform on fridai, the men agre he wa "brilliant". and thei would all be out on the doorstep push the labour messag come elect time. "if you ar not fire up about the elect, then what's the point? there is no complac as far as i can see in the labour parti. we ar fire up. we ar up for thi elect," said richi porterhous. mr telford agre, but ad it wa becom increasingli difficult to think of an answer when peopl ask "what ha labour done for the north east?" "i have had door slam in my face," he said.

everi activist i spoke to said thei were proud of what thei believ labour had achiev in their local commun - the new hospit and school, the better life chanc for young peopl. the problem thei face, thei said, wa convert thi local feelgood factor into vote. but thei could at least reli on on "secret weapon", as on activist put it - tori leader michael howard.
