lib dem highlight problem debt

peopl vulner to problem debt should be afford greater protect from bank aggress promot financi product, the lib dem sai.

vincent cabl sai on in eight household alreadi struggl with debt and that will worsen if there is a hike in interest rate or unemploy. the lib dem' treasuri spokesman is unveil a polici aim at the issu. he want to see "proper health check" when loan ar market so peopl know to take out payment protect.

"were econom condit to deterior at all, larg number of peopl could be affect becaus thei have borrow to the limit," mr cabl told bbc new. "bank ar veri aggress promot debt in mani case there is a bigger problem ahead." mr cabl said the govern's consum credit bill would target some of the "extrem problem" such as loan shark, but minist had been "a bit complac" about the wider issu of debt level. he said much of the payment protect current avail wa "extrem expens" and there were "lot of exclus".

mr cabl ad that the offic of fair trade should investig the market. lib dem leader charl kennedi meanwhil is in the middl of a tour of the uk aim at persuad voter hi is the "real opposit". mr kennedi is visit a mixtur of rural seat, where hi parti is hope to make gain from the conserv, and urban area tradition associ with labour. labour sai a lib dem vote could "let the tori in", while the tori sai the lib dem would mean "higher tax, soft crime law, more power to europ". mr kennedi's tour come as he, labour leader toni blair and conserv leader michael howard all step up campaign ahead of the next gener elect, wide expect to be held on 5 mai.

the liber democrat sai in the northern citi, the race is between them and labour, while in southern seat - particularli the south west - it is between them and the tori. speak to the bbc's westminst hour on sundai, mr kennedi said the upcom gener elect - wide tip for 5 mai - would be much more unpredict than ani other in "recent experi". and he brush off labour suggest a vote for hi parti would mean let the tori in "by the back door". "if you look at the four previou parliamentari by-elect, the liber democrat have demonstr that, not onli can we leapfrog the conserv where we start in a third place posit, but we can go on to defeat the govern. "that's go to be the stori, i think, of thi come gener elect."
