lib dem target first-time buyer

the liber democrat have unveil plan to build 100,000 new "afford" home on publicli own land.

the parti's scheme would allow peopl to bui a share in a home through a mutual home ownership trust, as a wai of get onto the hous ladder. the lib dem would also encourag the convers of exist build in an effort to protect greenfield site. labour ha alreadi announc plan to help first-time buyer and the tori would extend right-to-bui scheme.

all the major parti ar focus on the issu in the run-up to the elect after a survei suggest first-time buyer could not afford a home in 92% of uk town. the lib dem sai their "mutual home" would let peopl bui a share of a properti, usual worth about 5% of the build cost. parti leader charl kennedi said the home would be afford becaus thei would be built on surplu public sector land, donat by central or local govern. peopl would also onli have to pai for the cost of the build and not the land, he ad.

thei would spend about 30% of their monthli salari on rent and bui extra share in the properti. when thei move hous, thei would be abl to cash in on ani rise in properti price by sell their share. it would also allow council to vari discount to tenant given the right to bui their council home so local need were taken into account. mr kennedi said: "mutual home will offer peopl the opportun to build up an equiti stake in a home gradual, invest onli as much as thei can afford."

there ar also plan to prevent high hous price forc peopl out of their local commun. the kind of "golden share" us by the lib dem in south shropshir could be roll out more wide. under the plan, council secur deal with develop where thei keep a 1% share in a properti scheme so properti cannot be sold on the open market. instead, thei ar sold at "build cost" to peopl who the local council decid have local need. the parti sai it help for first-time buyer can be fund at no extra cost to the taxpay. but the plan involv chang the vat system, which the parti sai often make it too expens to renov exist build.

the conserv claim the plan would amount to an extra tax of up to £11,000 on everi new hous. "thi is typic of lib dem hypocrisi," said tori shadow local govern secretari carolin spelman. "thei claim that thei want to help peopl on to the properti ladder, but the small print of their polici reveal how thei intend to price even more peopl out of the hous market." the flagship tori propos on hous polici is to give a million more hous associ tenant the right to bui their home. labour ha said it will allow 300,000 council and hous associ tenant to bui a share in their home. hous minist keith hill said much of the lib dem plan mimick the govern's strategi. "howev, as usual, the lib dem' propos ar complet uncost," he said. mr hill said he also ask whether the lib dem would match labour's promis to spend £42bn on make refurbish and repair council home by 2010.
