lib dem unveil women's manifesto

the liber democrat ar attempt to woo femal voter with the launch of their manifesto for women.

charl kennedi is pledg a matern incom guarante and a pension system base on year of resid rather than nation insur payment. he also think women will back plan to end univers tuition fee and for free long-term care for the elderli. both labour and the conserv have said thei also plan to boost pension and to improv childcar support. mr kennedi sai he want to deal with polici area that disadvantag women. "two million pension in britain current live below the govern's own poverti line - two-third of whom ar women," he said.

he sai that pension base on the number of year work ignor the contribut women make care for children. the lib dem's citizen's pension, base on length of resid not on nation insur contribut, would address that imbal, mr kennedi argu. under the packag, new mother would be offer minimum guarante matern pai of £170 a week for the first six month after the birth of their first child. mr kennedi also believ the parti's plan to us the monei save from not introduc "illiber" id card to boost polic number by 10,000 would appeal to women too. the polici ar not new announc, but the wai thei ar structur as a packag to appeal to women is.

mr kennedi also point to the fact that 40% of the parti's candid set to stand in winnabl or target seat ar women. parti strategist claim that where women candid replac men turnout rise by 4%. mr kennedi began the pitch for femal support with an interview on bbc radio 4's women's hour on mondai. dure the interview mr kennedi reveal that he plan to structur the parti's gener elect campaign around the birth of hi first child, which is expect in april. the babi and hi wife sarah would be "prioriti number on" even if it arriv in the middl of the elect campaign, he said.

parti strategist believ win over a signific proport of women voter is kei to elector success. a parti spokesman said it wa court femal vote becaus thei tend to vote more than men and ar believ to be more consid and open-mind in decid who thei vote for. labour's deputi minist for women jacqui smith accus the lib dem of offer "fals promis" to women and said their sum did not add up. she said: "these propos would increas the cost to the public purs drastic year on year, and hard work famili will pai dearli, through either increas tax or reduc spend on public servic". the labour parti ha commit itself to "univers, afford and flexibl" childcar for parent of all 3 to 14 year-old, includ childcar centr on school to be avail from 8am to 6pm. in septemb, trade and industri secretari patricia hewitt said she would like to see longer paid matern leav, higher patern pai and the extens of flexibl work right to carer, if labour won a third term. the conserv ar yet to unveil their manifesto plan for childcar but said in novemb thei would increas matern pai and pai the child tax credit in cash to parent to spend as thei like, on a nanni, au pair or even a famili member, such as a grandpar, act as a carer. thei were also consult on make childcar cost tax deduct.
