will tori tax cut lift spirit?

michael howard ha final reveal the full scale of hi plan tori tax cut.

should he win the next gener elect, he ha earmark £4 billion that will be us to reduc tax - although he still will not sai which or how. thi wa the pre-elect messag mani in hi parti have been press for and voter, he believ, will warm to. at it simplest, it is sai: "vote tori and you can have it both wai". not onli would hi govern stick to labour spend plan on core public servic, includ health and educ, it would increas spend on defenc, polic and pension. and even after that wa done, it would still have enough left over for a tax cut equival to about a penni off the basic rate of incom tax.

all the monei would come from it £35 billion effici save which would see the ax taken to bureaucraci, wast and the civil servic. of that, £23 billion would go on spend plan, with £8 billion to fill the black hole left, thei claim, by gordon brown, and the rest go in tax cut.

neither mr howard nor mr letwin would sai exactli how thei would us that cash, although a cut in the basic rate seem unlik. idea alreadi float includ rais tax threshold and abolish or reduc inherit tax, although some in the tori parti ar urg mr howard to announc someth more ey-catch befor the elect. as the tori leader declar, the aim of the exercis is to open up a real econom polici divid between labour and the tori. "at thi elect, peopl will have a clear choic between mr blair who will wast more and tax more and the conserv parti which will give valu for monei and tax less," he said.

it is a move back toward an almost tradit tori messag which previous suggest labour wa the parti of tax rise and the conserv the parti of tax cut.

the extens of that, howev, wa that labour wa also seen as the parti of big spend on the public servic while the tori were the cutter. and that is where on of the problem li for mr howard - can he persuad sceptic voter that thei realli can have it both wai with bigger spend on public servic and lower tax? he insist he will not promis anyth befor the elect that he cannot deliv if put into down street. labour, needless to sai, claim hi plan £35bn effici save simpli don't add up and that those sort of figur ar fantasi.

on of new labour's greatest success befor the histor 1997 elect wa to persuad voter, busi and the citi that it could be trust to run the economi. so far that ha not face ani real challeng, but independ analyst now claim a third new labour govern would be forc to either increas taxat or tax to plug a black hole it ha at the centr of it financ. meanwhil, the liber democrat ar commit to increas tax for the most well off to financ their spend propos launch earlier in the dai. so, mr howard hope hi messag will start to hit home dure thi unoffici elect campaign and that hi poll rate might final lift off the floor. and, while other issu like the iraq war and trust will plai a major part in that campaign, it is like - and the prime minist probabl hope - that the economi will be the decid factor.
