tori outlin polic plan

local commun would be ask to go to the poll to elect their own area polic commission, under plan unveil by the conserv.

parti leader michael howard said the new role would replac "inconspicu" polic author. he said the new offic would not supersed the job of a chief constabl. the lib dem said the plan could let extrem group run polic, while labour criticis "extravag" tori promis on polic.

respond to the plan, the chairman of the polic feder of england and wale, which repres rank and file offic, said it wa essenti oper independ wa retain.

jan berri said: "it is a servic, not a polit footbal to be kick around everi time an elect approach. "these plan could result in those with extrem polit view dictat what actual happen on the ground," she warn. outlin hi crime manifesto, mr howard said elect polic commission would be more account than polic author which ar made up of local councillor and magistr. "the commission will have the power which exist polic author have," he told bbc radio 4's todai programm. "the troubl is, and it's no reflect on the peopl who ar on the polic author - thei ar good peopl - but hardli anyon know who thei ar." mr howard said the author were not "provid the local account that we want to see" and that elect polic commission would be more visibl.

critic fear the move could hand control of the polic to singl-issu campaign who would ignor the need of the wider commun. lord harri, who sit on the execut of associ of polic author, said the plan seem to suggest chief constabl should be told what to do by a singl politician. "that is overturn nearli 200 year of the wai in which we have organis polic in thi countri to avoid the politicis of polic decis," he said.

liber democrat home affair spokesman mark oaten said the plan wa danger and "could creat conflict between chief constabl and elect offici". mr oaten said local peopl had too littl control over polic but a far better solut would be for elect councillor to draw up a "minimum polic guarante" with their chief constabl. a labour parti spokesman criticis michael howard's record, sai polic number had fallen by 1,132 when he wa home secretari. he said: "todai the tori ar make more extravag promis on the polic without make clear how thei would pai for them, other than through fantasi save to the asylum system." the tori insist the commission role would not be like that of an american sheriff. other tori law and order plan includ build more prison and make crimin serv full jail sentenc.
