tv debat urg for parti chief

broadcast should fix a date for a pre-elect televis debat between the three main polit leader, accord to the hansard societi.

it would then be up to toni blair, michael howard and charl kennedi to decid whether to take part, the non-partisan chariti said. chairman lord holm argu that prime minist should not have the right of veto on a matter "of public interest". "the broadcast should make the decis to go ahead," he said.

lord holm's propos for a televis debat come just four month after million of viewer were abl to watch us presid georg w bush slug it out verbal with hi democrat challeng john kerri. he said it wa a "democrat dubiou proposit" that it wa up to the incumb prime minist to decid whether a similar event take place here.

if mr blair did not want to take part, the broadcast could go ahead with an empti chair or cancel the event and explain their reason why, lord holm said. "what make the present situat even less accept is that although mr howard and mr kennedi have said thei would welcom a debat, no-on ha heard directli from the prime minist," he said. "it ha been left to nudg and wink, hint and brief from hi aid and campaign manag to impli that mr blair doesn't want on, but we haven't heard from the prime minist himself."

lord holm, who ha campaign for televis debat at previou elect, said broadcast were "more than will to cooper with the arrang". opinion poll suggest that the idea had the back of the public who like compar the person and polici of the contend in their own home, he said.

lord holm argu that as part of their public servic oblig, broadcast "should make the decis to go ahead" as soon as the elect is call. an independ third-parti bodi such as the hansard societi or elector commiss could work out the ground rule so thei were fair to particip and inform to the public, he said. "it would be up to each parti leader to accept or refus," said lord holm.

"if the prime minist's report posit is true and he doe want to take part, he would then be oblig to sai why publicli. "the broadcast would then have the option of cancel the event for obviou and well-understood reason, or go ahead with an empti chair. "either wai would be prefer to the present hidden veto." the hansard societi ha long campaign for televis debat and ha publish report on the issu in 1997 and 2001. toni blair ha alreadi rule out take part in a televis debat dure the forthcom elect campaign. last month he said: "we answer thi everi elect campaign and, for the reason i have given befor, the answer is no," he said at hi monthli new confer."
