chancellor ralli labour voter

gordon brown ha issu a ralli cry to support, warn the "stake ar too high" to stai at home or protest vote in the next gener elect.

the chancellor said the poll - expect to fall on 5 mai - would give a "clear and fundament" choic between labour invest and tori cut. he told hi parti's spring confer the tori must not be allow to win. the conserv and lib dem insist that voter face higher tax and mean-test under labour.

to a pack audienc at gateshead's sage centr, mr brown accus shadow chancellor oliv letwin of plot cut that were the equival of sack everi teacher, gp and nurs in the countri. lai into the conserv's record in govern he said: "i give you thi promis - with labour, britain will never return to the mistak of erm and 10% inflat, 15% interest rate, £3bn in lost reserv, 250,000 repossess, on million in neg equiti and three million unemploi. "never again tori boom and bust.

"thi will be the central divid line at the elect, between a conserv parti take britain back and plan deep cut of £35bn in our servic, and a labour govern take britain forward, which on a platform of stabil will reform and renew our hospit, school and public servic and, i am proud to sai, spend by 2008 £60bn more." turn to the economi, the chancellor promis to continu econom stabil and growth in a third term in power.

he also pledg to continu the fight against child and pension poverti. and he promis help to get young peopl on the properti ladder. "my messag to the thousand of young coupl wait to obtain their first home is that hous is rightli now at the centr of our come manifesto," he said. "and the next labour govern will match our low mortgag rate with a new first-time buyer' initi." in the speech, which prompt a stand ovat, he also promis to end teenag unemploy within the next five year.

he also highlight plan for 100% debt relief for the world's poorest countri, a nation minimum wage for 16 and 17-year-old, the creation of a network of children's centr and flexibl in matern leav. respond to the speech, shadow chief secretari to the treasuri, georg osborn, said: "thi wa more talk from gordon brown. "we've heard it all befor. instead of talk about the futur he kept on talk about the past. "he complet fail to sai which tax he would put up to fill the black hole in hi spend plan. "there will be a simpl choic at the elect - valu for monei and lower tax with the conserv, or more wast and higher tax under toni blair and gordon brown."

liber democrat shadow chancellor vinc cabl warn the pictur wa not as rosi as mr brown would like to portrai it. "for all hi trumpet of labour's manag of the economi, gordon brown's record is veri mix," he said. "gordon brown ha creat a system of massiv centralis and bureaucraci, a system which subject million of peopl to mean test, and a system of taxat which is extrem complex. "for all hi posit word, gordon brown is face with econom problem loom on the horizon, not least the unpreced level of person debt face the nation." also in gateshead, the prime minist took question sent in by e-mail, text messag and telephon as part of labour's attempt to engag the public in their campaign. mr blair told the audienc he believ the iraq war would have made britain a safer place if it emerg democraci succeed and that he want to bring troop home as soon as possibl, but not befor the job wa done. he also said he want to carri on as pm "becaus i still think that there ar big chang our countri need".
