brown 'proud of economi record'

gordon brown ha deliv a rous speech to labour's spring confer set out the govern's agenda for the next gener elect.

the chancellor said he wa proud of hi parti's record on the economi, and would strive for continu stabil if elect. the gateshead confer wa told he would help young peopl who were struggl to bui their own home. and the chancellor vow to continu the fight against child poverti. later, prime minist toni blair will answer question sent by the public via text and e-mail.

analys mr brown's posit befor the speech, bbc correspond jame hardi said mr brown would draw "sharp divid line" with the conserv for the forthcom elect campaign. he would contrast labour's plan to invest £60bn in servic with a tori plan to cut spend by £35bn. "mr brown will lai out hi credenti as a reform chancellor determin to take on and beat the asian tiger economi which increasingli domin world trade," our correspond said.

on fridai night, mr brown confirm he would not make ani tax commit until the labour manifesto had been publish after the budget, expect in march. but comment will listen to hi speech close for hint on whether, as the conserv claim, he plan to rais tax after the elect. the tori accus labour of rais tax 66 time sinc come to power in 1997.

follow the chancellor's keynot speech, the prime minist will face interact question from ordinari voter on saturdai. mr blair is thought to be deliber put himself on the line in a bid to engag the elector ahead of an expect mai elect. capit radio dj margherita taylor will select question to put to him from thousand e-mail and sent by text. the prime minist's enthusiasm for the job remain undim, alan milburn, labour's elect strategist told radio 4's todai programm on saturdai. mr blair ha "the same passion and the same commit for the job" as when labour came to power in 1997, he said.

and he confirm mr blair's insist that no poll date had yet been set. he said: "i'm the gener elect co-ordin and i don't know, and toni ha not made up hi mind." on fridai, the prime minist complet a whistl-stop tour of england, dure which he unveil hi parti's six pre-elect pledg. start in london, he visit margin constitu pledg to build on what he said were labour's achiev on the economi, crime, educ and public servic. the conserv and lib dem said the pledg - set to underpin labour's elect campaign - were "worthless".
