fox attack blair's tori 'li'

toni blair li when he took the uk to war so ha no qualm about ly in the elect campaign, sai the tori.

tori co-chairman liam fox wa speak after mr blair told labour member the tori offer a "hard right agenda". dr fox told bbc radio: "if you ar will to lie about the reason for go to war, i guess you ar go to lie about anyth at all." he would not discuss report the parti repaid £500,000 to lord ashcroft after he predict an elect defeat.

the prime minist ratchet up labour's pre-elect campaign at the weekend with a helicopt tour of the countri and hi speech at the parti's spring confer. he insist he did not know the poll date, but it is wide expect to be 5 mai.

in what wa seen as a highli person speech in gateshead on sundai, mr blair said: "i have the same passion and hunger as when i first walk through the door of 10 down street." he describ hi relationship with the public as start euphor, then struggl to live up to the expect, and reach the point of rais voic and "throw crockeri". he warn hi support against complac, sai: "it's a fight for the futur of our countri, it's a fight that for britain and the peopl of britain we have to win."

mr blair said that whether the public chose michael howard or mr kennedi, it would result in "a tori govern not a labour govern and a countri that goe back and doe not move forward". dr fox accus mr blair and other cabinet minist of tell li about their oppon' polici and then attack the li. "what we learn at the weekend is what labour tactic ar go to be and it's go to be fear and smear," he told bbc new. the tori co-chairman attack labour's six new pledg as "vacuou" and said mr blair wa veri worri voter would take reveng for hi failur to deliv. dr fox refus to discuss weekend newspap report that the parti had repaid £500,000 to former tori treasur lord ashcroft after he said the parti could not win the elect. "we repai loan when thei ar due but do not comment to individu financi matter," he said, insist he enjoi a "warm and construct" relationship to lord ashcroft.

meanwhil lib dem leader charl kennedi is expect to attack mr blair's word as he begin a nationwid tour on mondai. mr kennedi is acceler lib dem elect prepar thi week as he visit manchest, liverpool, leicest, somerset, basingstok, shrewsburi, dorset and torbai. he said: "thi is three-parti polit. in the northern citi, the contest is between labour and the liber democrat. "in southern and rural seat - especi in the south west - the princip contend ar the liber democrat and the conserv, who ar out of the run in scotland and wale." the lib dem accus mr blair of make a "touchi-feeli" speech to labour deleg which will not help him regain public trust.
