blair join school sail trip

the prime minist ha don a life jacket and join school children in a sail dinghi as he sought to sell hi parti's educ polici.

toni blair sail across the lake in bromsgrov, worcestershir, while on a visit with educ secretari ruth kelli to back school out. mr blair later stress labour's elect pledg to focu on educ, when he met parent in the area. the conserv and lib dem both sai hi pledg ar "worthless". all the parti ar step up campaign ahead of a gener elect wide expect to be held on 5 mai. mr blair, look a littl windswept, join two girl from st egwin's middl school in evesham and an instructor for a trip in the wayfar dinghi, close follow by a boat full of photograph.

afterward he said outdoor activ were benefici for children but accept that lot of teacher now worri about take part for fear of be su if someth went wrong. "what we're do is introduc some simpl guidelin so if teacher follow those thei ar not go to be at risk of legal action," mr blair said. "when you ar do these type of activ you've got to exercis some common sens there obvious. "you can't have a situat where parent or teacher end up be worri that thei're go to be subject to all sort of legal action if thei take children sail or do outdoor activ that is actual good for the kid and good for their health and their charact."

the pledg on educ - "your child achiev more" - wa on of six elect pledg unveil by mr blair last week. if it win a third term in the gener elect expect thi year, labour is commit to give parent more choic between school; allow all secondari school to take on specialist statu; open 200 citi academi and creat 100,000 more sixth-form place. it aim to improv disciplin in school by adopt a "zero toler" approach to disrupt of class and introduc fix penalti notic for truant. labour also plan to give head teacher at group of local school control over fund for unit to handl disrupt pupil.

parent and teacher who met mr blair on tuesdai were invit to the inform discuss after write to their mp to rais concern about educ. it is the latest in a seri of event design to show the prime minist is speak directli to voter in the run-up to the elect - and that he ha not lost touch. for the conserv, shadow educ secretari tim collin said: "mr blair&#191;s govern is all talk. he must be judg on what he ha done in two term, not what he mendaci claim he would do in a third. that judgment will be damn." the liber democrat ar promis to cut class size for the youngest children and ensur all children ar taught by a qualifi teacher in each subject.
