analysi: no pain, no gain?

he call it hi "masoch strategi" in the run-up to the iraq war and now toni blair ha sign up for anoth dose of pain.

the idea is simpl - the prime minist goe head to head with an often hostil group of "real" voter in the full spotlight of the televis camera. the theori is that talk to the great british public, even if thei ar the "great unwash", is better than have the media filter what voter hear from politician. it is also the most effect wai of show that he is awar of real peopl's concern and - on occas - of their outright furi. mr blair us the tactic befor the iraq war to try to show he realli wa engag with public concern and you can expect to see it much more in the run-up to the elect.

labour know it ha been damag by accus of spin, "control freakeri" and over-slick present - sometim from within the rank of it own mp. toni blair himself ha said peopl complain he doe not listen. mr blair's latest bout of flagel came with a seri of question session on five televis throughout wednesdai.

the troubl began on the wright stuff show, with maria hutch march up to him, sai "toni, that's rubbish" as she tri to complain about her autist son's school be threaten with closur. a few "don't worri" as mr hutch wa led back to the audienc avert a public slang match - he spoke to her privat after the show. but that wa onli the start and later session produc the type of grill not even the toughest televis interview could produc.

writer neil coppendal, from west sussex, ask of the iraq war: "ten of thousand of innoc men, women and children di - how do you manag to sleep at night?" on immigr, london teacher dian granger said: "where ar you go to put everyon?" and can you imagin even jeremi paxman put the question pose by brighton nurs marion brown: "would you wipe somebodi's backsid for £5?"

mr blair tri to us the question' first name - and sometim threw them off their stride by ask what thei would do about the problem. mani of the newspap have brand the exercis a pr stunt which backfir. inde there is a danger mr blair simpli end up look "embattl". conserv michael howard and liber democrat charl kennedi ar to be offer chanc to appear in similar slot on the channel next month. labour strategist believ more of the session will mean the heckler no longer becom a stori and the real issu take promin.

jame humphrei, ex-head of corpor commun at number 10, sai the strategi show frustrat with the media. "thei feel thei don't get their voic across and go direct to peopl is clearli their game on thi occas," he sai. there ar risk but the prize is tackl the trend of lower turnout at the poll, he argu. the prime minist know full well the potenti hazard .

he must rememb with grit teeth hi confront with sharron storer, the birmingham woman who harangu him over the state of her local hospit in the 2001 elect campaign. "all you do is walk around and make yourself known, you don't do anyth to help anybodi," she told mr blair befor stomp off, refus hi plea to discuss the issu privat. former down street media chief alastair campbel ha describ the episod as a "bit of a disast" as it meant the launch of labour's elect manifesto receiv littl coverag. but it wa seen as on of the few moment when that elect campaign came aliv, not least becaus it coincid with john prescott's even more direct contact - when he punch an egg-throw protest.

former prime minist too have come to grief at the hand of a persist member of the public. the undoubt highlight of year of elect phone-in show wa margaret thatcher discomfort on nationwid in 1983, when viewer diana gould put her on the spot about the sink of the belgrano in the falkland war. john major reap the benefit of street campaign dure the 1992 elect campaign with hi famou soapbox.

it mai have left him splatter with egg and engin oil at time but he felt it ad "fizz" to hi campaign. in hi memoir, he also argu the strategi contrast with neil kinnock's "contriv photo opportun" and attempt at an art campaign. "he want to look like a prime minist. i

wa

prime minist and i want a flesh and blood fight," sai mr major. mr blair told prospect labour mp on thursdai that take part in phone-in and public meet could "enthus and engag and give the public a sens of empower". but he also want to counter complaint that he ha spent too much time on intern affair and foreign trip. mr blair recal how bill clinton onc advis him: "alwai rememb that what peopl see of you in the new in the even is how thei think you spend your dai." hi hope must be that voter watch him on the rack will bear out for labour the old maxim: "no pain, no gain."
