lib dem stress budget trust gap

public trust in the handl of the economi can onli be restor if gordon brown open up hi book for unbias inspect, sai the lib dem.

citi expert sai there is a £10bn "black hole" in the public financ, a claim deni by the chancellor. lib dem spokesman vinc cabl said the public did not know who to believ and the nation audit offic should judg. respond to the pre-budget report, mr cabl also attack labour's "unfair" and over-complic tax.

in hi report, mr brown insist he wa on cours to meet hi "golden rule" of borrow onli to invest, rather than for dai-to-dai spend, over the cours of the econom cycl. mr cabl said peopl did not know whether to believ the chancellor or the consensu among expert which said the rule would be broken. "there is an issu of credibl and trust," he said. "we cannot have a continu of a situat where the chancellor set hi own test and then mark them. "what we need is the equival of a thorough ofst inspect of the govern's account." he ask what the govern had to hide.

mr cabl also accus the chancellor of duck tough choic. he argu: "there ar seriou challeng ahead from the fall dollar and from the rapid downturn in the uk hous market and rise person debt. but thei have not been confront." mr brown confirm he wa set asid anoth £520m for the conflict in iraq and afghanistan. mr cabl compar that new cost with the £500m need for britain's role in the entir first gulf war - when 80% of the bill had been met through help from european and arab nation. he suggest keep british troop in iraq could cost anoth £1bn with the govern also plan to spend at least £3bn for ident card. the current econom climat meant britain could not afford the "reckless, georg bush-style tax cut spree" plan by the tori, he said. instead, what wa need wa simpl and fair taxat rather than the "complet mess" produc by mr brown's endless tinker.

mr cabl said 40% of all pension were now pai margin tax rate of 50%. and on-and-a-half million hard work famili were pai 60% margin tax rate. with that record, he ask why minist attack lib dem plan for a new 50% tax rate for the "veri rich" - those earn more than £100,000 a year. mr brown earmark £1bn to help keep down council tax rise next year. but the lib dem spokesman question whether that monei wa be found from cut to educ and health. he urg the govern to scrap the "grossli unfair" tax complet. the lib dem want it replac with a local incom tax. in respons, mr brown stress the iraq monei came from a reserv fund. it wa becaus he had reject previou lib dem propos, such as scrap the new deal, that britain's economi wa success, claim mr brown.
