brown alli reject budget spree

chancellor gordon brown's closest alli ha deni suggest there will be a budget giveawai on 16 march.

ed ball, ex-chief econom advis to the treasuri, said there would be no spend spree befor poll dai. but mr ball, a prospect labour mp, said he wa confid the chancellor would meet hi fiscal rule. he wa speak as sir digbi jone, cbi director gener, warn mr brown not to be tempt to us ani extra cash on pre-elect bribe.

mr ball, who step down from hi treasuri post to stand as a labour candid in the elect, had suggest that mr brown would meet hi golden econom rule - "with a margin to spare". he said he hope more would be done to build on current tax credit rule.

he also stress rise in interest rate ahead of an expect mai elect would not affect the labour parti's chanc of win. expect of a rate rise have gather pace after figur show hous price ar still rise. consum borrow rose at a near-record pace in januari. "if the mpc (the bank of england's monetari polici committe) were to judg that a rate rise wa justifi befor the elect becaus of the strength of the economi - and i'm not predict that thei will - i do not believ that thi will be a big elect issu in britain for labour," he told a parliamentari lunch. "thi is a big chang in our polit cultur."

dure an interview with bbc radio 4's todai programm, mr ball said he wa sure mr brown's budget would not put at risk the stabil of the economi. "i don't think we'll see a pre-elect spend spree - we certainli did not see that befor 2001," he said.

hi assur came after sir digbi jone said stabil wa all import and ani extra cash should be spent on improv worker' skill. hi messag to the chancellor wa: "pleas don't give it awai in ani form of election." sir digbi ad: "i don't think he will. i have to sai he ha been a prudent chancellor right the wai through. stabil is the kei word - british busi need bore stabil more than anyth. "we would sai to him 'don't increas your public spend, don't give it awai. but if you ar go to anywher, just add someth to the competit of britain, put it into skill our peopl'. "that would be a good wai to spend ani excess."

mr ball refus to sai whether mr brown would remain as chancellor after the elect, amid specul he will be offer the job of foreign secretari. "i think that gordon brown want to be part of the success labour govern which deliv in the third term for the prioriti of the peopl and see off a conserv parti that will take britain backward," mr ball told todai. prime minist toni blair ha yet to name the date of the elect, but most pundit ar bet on 5 mai.
