will the budget bring out smile voter?

as tori spokesman oliv letwin said - ani chancellor would us hi pre-elect budget to offer some vote win sweeten, wouldn't he.

and everyon doe, inde, expect gordon brown to do just that in hi last budget befor the expect poll dai of 5 mai. there will be plenti of talk about take no risk with the economi or hand out irrespons giveawai. but mr brown will stun westminst and break just about everi histor preced if he fail to do someth design to put a smile on voter' face and make them more inclin to back labour in the elect. and there ha alreadi been specul about possibl tax reduct for the poorest and increas the threshold on stamp duti in thi week's budget. the aim of hi packag will be to keep ani disillus core labour voter in the fold, while ensur the middl england voter who gave toni blair two elect victori don't desert him at the third poll.

and, needless to sai, there will be plenti of analysi of what impact the budget will have on mr brown's own ambit to replac mr blair as prime minist at some point after a third win. but there is a shadow hang over thi pre-elect perform - in the shape of £11 billion or thereabout. that is the size of the financi "black hole" the tori, back by some independ forecast, believ mr brown will have to fill with tax increas after the elect.

the open shot in that battl wa fire at the weekend with claim a treasuri leak suggest mr brown wa readi to slap capit gain tax on home sale to rais some of that cash. it wa immedi deni, but the tori remain suspici, claim that, as mr letwin said, if the monei doe not come from there, where will it come from.

mr brown will undoubtedli claim the forecast ar simpli wrong and that he will have absolut no need to rais tax after the elect, should labour win. previou gloomi forecast prove wrong, he will argu, while suggest that onli by stick with him can britain continu to have a sound economi, low unemploy and high public spend. the opposit will reject that by claim thei can keep the economi sound, increas spend and cut tax at the same time.

the liber democrat will also promis to run a sound economi, but base on increas tax to fund spend and, amongst other thing, abolish the council tax in favour of a local incom tax. and there will be prolong argument over which of the parti can make the greatest save in whitehal and beyond to fund their polici. but probabl what that all boil down to is a simpl question of which of the parti the voter most trust to keep the economi stabl and avoid ani unpleas surpris in the come year. and it is probabl still the answer to that on question that will overwhelmingli decid the outcom of the gener elect.
