brown come out shoot

labour mai have abolish hunt - but that didn't stop chancellor gordon brown us hi budget to fire both barrel at some of the opposit parti' core elect fox.

specif, it saw him attempt to slaughter the council tax as an elect issu and to tear limb from limb their wider polici for pension and famili. in a rel short speech he kept the best for last and wa clearli out to give exactli that pre-elect boost everyon had been predict. so if you ar a coupl with children, a pension, a patient or a youngster, there wa someth pull from mr brown's red box in an attempt to persuad you to stick with or switch to a new labour govern. like a surgeon, he attempt to target hi handout with absolut precis onto exactli the group the govern need to appeal to in the elect campaign.

the announc brought great cheer from hi own mp who ar now in full-on elect mode and had been look to their man to give them ammunit for the doorstep. thei obvious believ he had done that for them and, coincident, given hi own imag as a prime minist-in-wait anoth littl boost.

labour mp, for exampl, will undoubtedli now engag in a debat over exactli how redistribut - a love old labour word - thi chancellor realli is. but gordon brown is never go to put on a show and even as he wa out to cast himself as the man who will win labour an histor third term, hi demeanour remain quiet, confid and reassur. prudenc made an appear, albeit toward the end of hi address, as he assur voter he would do noth to mess up the econom stabil he had brought to britain and which, he claim, would be thrown awai by anyon els. accord to the opposit parti, howev, it is all on big con trick.

as alwai, thei accus him of gloss over the fact of the "black hole" at the centr of hi financ which, thei claim, would ensur tax increas after the elect. he did it most obvious with hi increas in nation insur contribut after the 2001 elect campaign dure which he had pledg not to increas incom tax. as liber democrat leader charl kennedi claim, for most famili the distinct between incom tax and a tax on incom is meaningless.

tori leader michael howard said the chancellor wa up to hi old trick of deliber re-cast hi forecast to give the illus that everyth in the treasuri larder is as fresh as the dai it wa first store awai for futur us. he brand it a dodgi "vote now pai later" budget base on dodgi figur from a dodgi govern that gave britain the dodgi dossier. where the chancellor mostli avoid direct election, mr howard felt no such constraint with attack like compar mr brown's forecast to the prime minist's forecast on iraq's weapon of mass destruct. as ever, there will now be a period of frantic activ by the opposit parti' treasuri specialist as thei pore over the chancellor's red book, which set out the fine detail of hi budget, in an attempt to spot the flaw. in particular there will be an argument over precis whose polici on the council tax will offer peopl the best deal. and in labour circl there will undoubtedli be an argument over just how good a prime minist gordon brown will make at some point after the next elect.
