kennedi criticis 'unfair' tax

gordon brown ha fail to tackl the "fundament unfair" in the tax system in hi ninth budget, charl kennedi ha said.

how wa it right that the poorest 20% of societi were still pai more as a proport of their incom than the richest 20%, the lib dem leader ask. the new £200 council tax rebat for pension did noth to fix the "unfair tax", he ad. the govern could not go on "patch up" the system, he ad. speak in the common after mr brown had deliv what is wide thought to be the last budget befor the gener elect, mr kennedi acknowledg that the uk wa on of the most success economi in the world.

but he criticis both the chancellor and the tori for fail to address the "tick bomb" of council tax revalu. he said the recent experi of wale indic seven million household in england would pai significantli more after revalu. the chancellor's announc that he wa to offer a £200 council tax rebat paid by pension household wa mere a "stick plaster" to a much bigger problem. the lib dem plan for a local incom tax would benefit the typic household by more than £450 a year, with half of all pension pai no local tax and about three million be better off.

on pension, mr kennedi said it wa a "scandal" that the system discrimin against women who had miss make nation insur payment when thei were have children. he said a resid criteria would end "at a stroke thi fundament iniqu". mr kennedi ad hi parti's prioriti of free long-term care for the elderli, abolish top-up fee and replac the council tax would be fund by charg 50% incom tax to those earn more than £100,000 per annum. he contrast hi approach with mr brown's pledg in 2001 not to increas incom tax. the chancellor went on to put up nation insur contribut after the elect. "for most individu, most famili, most household, it add up to exactli the same thing," said mr kennedi. "and thei wonder why peopl get cynic about their politician when thei give on impress befor an elect and do exactli the opposit after that elect."
