howard attack 'pai later' budget

tori leader michael howard ha dismiss gordon brown's budget as "vote now, pai later" spend plan.

the simpl fact wa that under a new labour govern tax would go up after the elect to plug a financi black hole, mr howard said. everyon could see the chancellor's "sweeten", but these hid tax rise for hard work famili, he said. labour's "falter elect campaign" would not be help by the packag of measur, mr howard ad.

mr brown's budget wa not about what wa good for the countri, but "all about the interest of the labour parti," the tori leader said after mockingli welcom the chancellor back to the elect campaign. he went on to accus mr brown of give with on hand while take awai with the other. he urg the chancellor to admit he had been respons for drag "million of peopl in to the net" to pai stamp duti and inherit tax. "we can all see the sweeten, but thei hide the crippl tax rise for hard-work famili that ar inevit if labour win."

he also accus the govern and the chancellor of run out of solut to the problem britain face. "their onli answer is to tax, to spend and to wast - to get peopl to vote now and pai later." mr brown like to rattl off "magic balanc conjur out of thin air" in a bid to convinc peopl there wa no "black hole" in the nation's financ, the tori leader said. "thi dodgi govern that brought us the dodgi dossier is now publish a dodgi budget base on dodgi number," he said. "you now propos to borrow, over the next six year, no less than £168 billion; so much for prudenc. "the chancellor's forecast of surplus ar no better than the prime minist's forecast of weapon of mass destruct."

mr brown's council tax rebat for pension wa £300 less than what the tori were offer, mr howard said. there wa noth in the budget that would put more polic on the street, make hospit cleaner or give parent and teacher the disciplin and skill thei want in school. peopl would face a "clear choic" at the elect, either "more wast and higher tax under labour or lower tax and valu for monei with the conserv", he said. "that's the battleground of thi elect. that's what thi elect is go to be all about and i sai bring it on," he conclud, to loud tori cheer.
