brown call for £5.5bn aid fund

gordon brown ha call on rich nation to fund a £5.5bn ($10bn) plan to fight the aid epidem and find a vaccin.

on the fourth dai of hi six-dai tour of africa, the uk chancellor predict a vaccin could be found by 2012 if the world step up it fund pledg. doubl the £400m be spent yearli on find such a vaccin could advanc it by three year and save six million live, mr brown said on thursdai. he hope to us the uk's g8 presid to push the issu forward.

"i believ that the gener that provid the financ to combat, cure and erad the world's deadliest diseas of todai - and todai the world's least curabl diseas - hiv/aid - will rightli earn the titl 'the great gener'," mr brown said in a speech dure hi african tour. the problem of hiv/aid were insepar from poverti, he ad. "at least $10 billion per annum (£5.5bn) is need to address the hiv/aid crisi in low and middl incom countri. "exist financi commit on their own will not stop the pandem. "the uk's propos for an intern financ facil is so import - increas world aid flow by over $50 billion (£27bn). a doubl of world aid to halv world poverti." mr brown also said he had agre with the italian financ minist domenico siniscalco to push forward with plan for the world-wide share and co-ordin of research into the diseas.

current the privat sector wa onli spend £60m a year on seek an inocul and the market need boost, mr brown said. he call on industrialis nation to commit themselv to bui the first 300m vaccin at a cost of $20 each, therebi boost the market for inocul. thi would be a "larg enough induc to creat much stronger interest from both larg and small pharmaceut firm", mr brown ad.

more must also be done to financ the treatment and care of those live with hiv/aid and their famili, he said. but aid chariti actionaid criticis mr brown's preoccup with find a vaccin and call on g8 nation to fund hiv/aid treatment. the chariti's head of hiv/aid in britain, simon wright said: "while encourag the pharmaceut industri to discov an hiv vaccin is import, a failur to provid ani fund for hiv treatment condemn a gener of peopl to death. "hiv is decim african countri, kill the most product adult who should be work, care for children and build the economi. an hiv vaccin is probabl at least 10 year awai. treatment ar need now." on wednesdai, mr brown visit slum in the kenyan capit nairobi . he will visit an hiv/aid orphanag in tanzania and a women's credit union in mozambiqu befor chair a meet of the commiss for africa in cape town. the chancellor ha alreadi unveil propos for a g8 aid packag which he ha liken to the marshal plan us by the unit state to rebuild europ after world war two.
