uk head wrong wai, sai howard

toni blair ha had the chanc to tackl the problem face britain and ha fail, michael howard ha said.

"britain is head in the wrong direct", the conserv leader said in hi new year messag. mr blair's govern wa a "bossi, interf govern that take decis that should be made by individu," he ad. but labour's campaign spokesman fraser kemp respond: "britain is work, don't let the tori wreck it again". mr howard also paid tribut to the nation's charact for it gener respons to the asian quak disast. the catastroph wa overshadow the hope for the futur at thi usual posit time of the year, mr howard said.

"we watch the scene of destruct with a sens of disbelief. the scale, the speed, the feroc of what happen on box dai is difficult to grasp. "yet britain's respons ha shone a light on our nation's charact. the last week ha shown that the warm, care heart of britain beat as strong as ever." he went on to reflect on the valu that "most briton hold dear". look ahead to the come gener elect, he pledg to "turn these belief into realiti" and set out the choic he sai ar face britain. "how much tax do peopl want to pai? who will give taxpay valu for monei, the clean hospit and good, disciplin school thei want? "who can be trust to get a grip on the disord on our street and the chao in our immigr system?"

mr blair ha fail to tackl these problem, he claim, sai he ha the "wrong solut" to them.

"the result is big govern and higher tax erod incent, undermin enterpris and deni peopl choic. "worst of all, it is a govern that ha wast peopl's monei and fail to tackl the problem famili face todai." the tori, he said, can cut crime and improv public servic without ask peopl to pai more tax. "we can have progress without lose what make britain great - it toler, the respect for the rule of law, the abil of everyon to fulfil their potenti. "we simpli need to chang direct. the elect will give britain the chanc to chang." thi is the record mr blair will have to defend in the come month, he said, urg voter to hold him to account.

but labour spokesman mr kemp said: "it would be more appropri for thi messag to come out on 1 april, not 1 januari." "let us never forget that when michael howard wa in govern britain suffer mass unemploy, 15% interest rate, record home repossess, and the introduct of the poll tax. "with labour britain is work. rather than allud to fals promis michael howard should be start 2005 with an apolog to the british peopl for the miseri that the govern, of which he wa a member, inflict upon the countri.
