act on detent rule, uk urg

the govern must act quickli on the law lord' rule that detent of foreign terror suspect without trial is unlaw, mari robinson ha said.

the former un commission for human right and irish presid told radio 4's todai the govern's respons would be scrutinis internation. "it would be veri troubl if the govern did not accept the judgement and then work within it," she said. home secretari charl clark ha said detaine will not be freed at present. speak to parliament on hi first dai in offic as home secretari follow david blunkett's resign, mr clark said: "i will be ask parliament to renew thi legisl in the new year. "in the meantim, we will be studi the judgement carefulli to see whether it is possibl to modifi our legisl to address the concern rais by the hous of lord."

mr robinson said the law lord' rule wa "in line with intern legal opinion" and prais their "veri decis" eight to on major. "what the law lord did wa acknowledg the role of the govern, but sai that there had been a disproportion us, that it amount to execut detent and it wa discriminatori becaus it didn't appli to british citizen," she said.

mr robinson warn that a lack of action by the british govern could lead to further action in legal arena such as the european court of human right in strasbourg. "if the govern were not to accept thi rule then there is further redress, includ possibl damag for the individu who could claim that the govern either wa tardi or wa resist the implic of the judgement of the law lord." she said a meet of the club of madrid - a group of former world leader - to be held in the spanish capit on the march anniversari of the train bomb there would probabl discuss the rule and it implic. "i have no doubt that thi judgement will be look at, both as a veri posit step in clarifi the law and restat the fundament principl, but also the respons of the british govern will be under quit a clear intern scrutini there."

the detaine took their case to the hous of lord after the court of appeal back the home offic's power to hold them without limit or charg. the govern opt out of part of the european convent on human right concern the right to a fair trial in order to bring in anti-terror legisl in respons to the 11 septemb attack in the us. ani foreign nation suspect of link with terror can be detain or can opt to be deport. the law lord said the rule were incompat with the european convent on human right as thei allow detent "in a wai that discrimin on the ground of nation or immigr statu". the case wa heard by a panel of nine law lord rather than the usual five becaus of the constitut import of the case.
