baa support ahead of court battl

uk airport oper baa ha reiter it support for the govern's aviat expans plan to airport throughout the countri.

the comment come a dai ahead of a high court challeng by resid' group and local council to the govern's white paper. the judici review will centr on govern plan for expans at heathrow, stanst and luton airport. baa, which oper all three, said it wa consult with local commun. "we ar...consult on voluntari compens scheme which go beyond our statutori oblig," a baa spokesman said.

group challeng the plan includ stop stanst expans, heathrow anti-nois campaign hacan clearski and the london borough of hillingdon and wandsworth. at heathrow, gatwick, edinburgh and glasgow airport, baa launch a seri of consult on blight to properti from the propos expans in septemb 2004, which will close next week. the compani is also offer to bui nois-hit properti for an index-link, unblight price. among other measur, baa ha set up a homeown support scheme for peopl live near stanst, and ha launch a special scheme for those close to the airport but far enough awai not to be cover by the homeown scheme. at heathrow, baa said it wa work close with all interest parti to see how the strict environment, air qualiti and nois target for a third runwai can be met.

at gatwick, the compani ha written to home and busi like to be affect by ani extra runwai. stop stanst expans said the white paper, publish in decemb 2003, wa "fundament flaw" and did not follow the proper consult process. "we do not underestim the scale of the challeng befor us becaus the court have never befor overturn a govern white paper," said stop stanst expans chairman peter sander said. hacan chairman john stewart said: "almost exactli a year ago the govern publish it 30-year aviat white paper with much fanfar. "it hope that would be the end of the debat and it could proce with it plan for a massiv expans of aviat. "yet, a year later the protest ar still here, and stronger than ever. " a judgement from mr justic sullivan is expect earli in februari.
