uk 'discrimin against roma'

the govern's immigr rule racial discrimin against roma (gypsi) seek entri into the uk, the law lord have rule.

it follow a home offic move to cut asylum claim by stop peopl, mostli roma, from board flight to britain from the czech capit, pragu. civil right group liberti said it expos "racism at the heart of the govern's asylum polici". the home offic said it had not meant to discrimin against anyon. it said it would look at the implic of the rule, but point out the control were no longer in place becaus czech ar now entitl to free movement across europ.

the screen took place at the airport in juli 2001, at a time of concern about the number of asylum seeker enter britain.

those refus "pre-clearanc" were effect prevent from travel to the uk, becaus no airlin would carri them. ladi hale, sit with lord bingham, steyn, hope and carswel, said mani roma had good reason to want to leav the czech republ becaus of persecut. but she said thei were treat more sceptic than non-roma passeng by immigr offic "act on racial ground". ladi hale said immigr offic should have treat all would-be passeng in the same wai, onli us more intrus question if there wa a specif reason.

liberti said statist suggest roma czech were 400 time more like to be stop by british immigr offici at pragu airport than non-roma czech. it took up the case of six unnam roma czech refus entri to britain, and that of the european roma right centr, which said the measur unfairli penalis roma peopl. it lost a high court action in octob 2002 when a judg said the system wa "no more or less objection" than a visa control system. he rule there wa no oblig on britain not to take step to prevent a potenti refuge from approach it border to claim asylum.

the court of appeal then decid the practic almost inevit discrimin against roma, but that thi wa justifi becaus thei were more like to seek asylum. immigr law allow offici to discrimin against citizen from name countri, but it doe not allow offic to go further than that.

respond to the rule, a home offic spokesman said: "the scheme wa oper two year ago as a short-term respons to the high level of passeng travel from pragu who ar subsequ found to be inelig for entri to the uk."

welcom the rule, maev sherlock, chief execut of the refuge council, said: "human right abus against the roma in eastern europ ar well document, and it is huge troubl that the govern sought to deni entri to such a vulner group." amnesti intern's jan shaw said: "that the govern's own asylum polici wa be oper discriminatorili is bleakli iron given that discrimin often li at the heart of seriou human right abus, not least in the czech republ." but the chairman of migrat watch uk, sir andrew green, said the hous of lord decis wa a "step in the wrong direct". "the basic point is that the govern ha a duti to control our border and thi decis appear to extend the race relat legisl beyond sensibl limit."
