howard pitch for uk ethnic vote

michael howard is to make a pitch for britain's ethnic vote urg peopl who feel "taken for grant" by toni blair to vote conserv.

he will sai conserv "share the same valu" as the uk's minor. and that he want to build a "better britain" where everyon, whatev the colour of their skin or religion, can "make the most of their talent". but the tori leader will argu against posit discrimin sai it is "outdat and unjust".

"it set famili against famili and it lead ethnic commun to doubt their own abil," he will argu. mr howard - himself the son of immigr - will acknowledg that racial discrimin still exist in the uk. "peopl from ethnic commun, for exampl, still earn less than their white counterpart," he will sai befor argu the answer to help everyon to get on wa "free enterpris, free trade, free speech". the tori leader will also call for religi toler argu that hindu and sikh as well as muslim got "caught in the downdraft of islamaphobia which wa on of the terribl side effect of 9/11".

mr howard will make hi speech dure a visit to support tori parliamentari hope robert light and sayeeda warsi - "the first british muslim woman" select to run for mp as a conserv candid. he will attack labour's record in govern over issu such as tax and he will set out tori plan for an immigr quota to be set by mp. mr howard will also attack the lib dem for want to abolish faith school, introduc compulsori sex educ from the ag of seven, and "give contracept out in school from the ag of 11". "so i sai to all those peopl from ethnic minor who feel mr blair and the liber democrat take their vote for grant - come join us," he will sai. lib dem presid simon hugh brand mr howard "arrog and wrong" for claim the tori were the "natur parti" for britain's ethnic minor. "given the tori' consider reduc support in urban area, where mani black and asian briton live, dure their time in power, the evid simpli doe not support hi claim that the conserv ar the parti for these commun," he said.
