observ to monitor uk elect

minist will invit intern observ to check the forthcom uk gener elect is fairli run.

the move come amid claim the poll could be mar by elector fraud. a report by two mp committe call on thursdai for urgent chang to the elector registr system to combat vote rig and boost turnout. but in a written respons to labour mp gordon prentic, the govern said it would normal invit observ to ani uk elect.

junior constitut affair minist christoph lesli said: "i fulli expect us to repeat our previou practic of do so onc the date for the next gener elect is announc." the govern ha look at wai of boost voter turnout, which fell to 59% in the last gener elect in 2001.

but trial all-postal ballot in four english region last summer were hit by delai and some fraud alleg. liber democrat peer lord greav call last week for intern observ at the gener elect - sai otherwis there could be month of court challeng "on a scale not seen sinc the 19th centuri". thursdai's report wa drawn up by two committe scrutinis the work of the offic of the deputi prime minist (odpm) and the depart for constitut affair (dca). it said that, with the growth of postal vote, there wa a strong case to tighten up fraud protect by requir voter to regist individu, rather than by household. it also said about three million peopl elig to vote ar not regist to do so.

figur for the 2001 gener elect suggest 29% of peopl ag between 18 and 24, and 19% of black voter were not on the elector roll. young peopl in share accommod ar thought to miss out becaus no on act as head of the household to fill in the form. odpm committe chairman andrew bennett said individu voter registr, as oppos to registr by household, should be quickli introduc as it could "dramat reduc the chanc of fraud". but hi counterpart on the dca committe, alan beith, said it should be delai "until measur like to increas registr have been put in place and prove effect." shadow constitut affair secretari oliv heald accus the govern of "drag it feet" over "thi badli need measur". "it is vital that we move ahead with the northern ireland system of individu elector registr to safeguard the integr of the britain's elector system," he said.

the report said individu registr should be treat carefulli as 12% of voter disappear from the elector roll in northern ireland when it wa introduc in 2002. the report said the govern should consid fine for unregist voter, but accept mani expert said it would be an expens system that would be hard to enforc. it said incent to regist, such as £20 council tax rebat, were like to be seen as "gimmick" and risk undermin the integr of the system, mp said. instead thei call for "imagin campaign" to boost interest.
