uk rebat 'unjustifi' - chirac

french presid jacqu chirac ha call the uk's £3bn rebat from the european union "unjustifi".

speak after a summit meet he said unless it wa put up for discuss the eu would never be abl to reach agreement on it medium term financ. earlier foreign secretari jack straw said the uk wa prepar to veto ani bid to reduc the rebat secur by margaret thatcher in 1984. he said it remain justifi becaus less eu farm monei came to the uk.

mr chirac told report in brussel: "on can onli have a reason budgetari balanc if we put back on the tabl the british chequ. it can no longer be justifi. it wa from the past." but a uk govern offici respond: "even with the rebat, the uk pai two and a half time more than franc contribut to the eu budget. without it we would pai 14 time as much as franc. "there can be no deal on futur financ which doe not protect the rebat."

the 25-member eu is gear up for tough negoti on it budget plan for the period 2007-2013, with the bloc's luxembourg presid hope to strike a deal at a june summit. earlier conserv graham bradi said the rebat wa a "crucial test" of how firmli minist were prepar to stand up for britain. eu commiss presid jose manuel barroso ha indic he want the rebat to come to an end. mr straw said that as well as the veto over the rebat the uk want to keep a tight rein on nation contribut.

the uk, franc, germani, austria, the netherland and sweden want the eu budget to be cap at 1% of member state' combin nation incom - the european commiss ha urg an increas to 1.26%. mr straw ha said the eu commiss's propos would mean a 35% hike in the budget. shadow europ minist mr bradi said: "i believ it is essenti that britain keep the rebat and i think it's a crucial test of how firmli the british govern is prepar to stand up for britain internation in europ.

"the uk is alreadi on of the biggest net contributor to the eu ." the foreign secretari meanwhil said the "justic" of the rebat remain. "we have on of the lowest net receipt of ani eu countri becaus of the rel small size of our agricultur sector and it effici. "that continu to be the case."

uk independ parti leader roger knapman said the rebat wa "set in stone" and there wa no reason to negoti about it. "it is extraordinari to do it at thi time, just as we ar becom the biggest contributor to the eu. if we lose our rebat as well, the british taxpay is go to be bled at such a rate that i think everyon will go off the european project." eu leader ar hold talk in brussel on how to re-energis the sluggish european economi. uk prime minist toni blair is meet hi eu counterpart to finalis a packag of measur aim at stimul growth and boost employ ahead of a seri of referendum on the european constitut. the plan could introduc a free market into everyth from comput servic to construct. critic - includ germani and franc - believ liberalis could result in compani shift staff to cheaper base in eastern europ, undercut larg eu economi and undermin social protect. there ar also concern about the number of worker from eastern european countri who will head west, exacerb the alreadi high unemploy level in germani.

mr straw insist there wa noth to fear from the servic director. "european countri overal have benefit huge from the free market in good," he said. "what we ar now talk about is develop that market into an intern market in servic." britain's low unemploy meant there wa less "neurosi" about peopl come from eastern european countri. "in countri like germani and franc, where frankli becaus of a tighter social market thei have much higher level of unemploy, there is increas anxieti about other peopl come in," he said.
