uk need tax cut, tori insist

a major chang of direct is need in britain if it is to prosper, the shadow chancellor said as the tori parti spring confer began.

oliv letwin said the uk could not compet with other countri without the £4bn tax cut he wa promis. tori co-chairman liam fox had open the forum in brighton with an attack on labour's record and parti leader michael howard is due to speak later. toni blair ha said conserv polici would caus econom failur. but mr letwin said britain had fallen from fourth to 11th in the intern econom competit leagu.

"can thi countri compet, can thi countri prosper, unless we do someth about the burden of regul and tax on our economi?" he said. "if we ar go to take on the great challeng, the challeng like those pose by the chines and the indian, we have got to do someth about get down the burden of regul and get down the burden of tax," he said. "the fact is the veri carefulli cost, fulli fund plan we have laid out for save £12bn by 2007-2008 ar absolut crucial to deliv an economi that will prosper and provid peopl with job and inde provid the public servic with the monei thei need on a sustain long-term basi." mr letwin said vote for labour meant choos higher tax, borrow and wast.

earlier, dr fox had said labour's rule had been characteris by "lost trust and failur to deliv". he also attack the govern's "failur" to control immigr and asylum and criticis it record on the nh, tell deleg labour cannot be trust on educ or crime. a tori govern would sort out the "shambl" of immigr, put patient befor statist and bring disciplin to school, he said. michael howard, who had been due to welcom deleg to the confer on fridai, will address them in a lunchtim speech. hi welcom address had to be postpon after he stai in london to lead the parti's opposit to the prevent of terror bill in it lengthi progress through parliament. the bill wa final pass on fridai even, after more than 30 hour of debat. mr howard is like to defend hi parti's handl of the bill, which wa onli pass after the conserv accept prime minist toni blair's promis that mp would be abl to review it within a year.
