brown target oap and homebuy

gordon brown ha doubl the level at which hous buyer pai stamp duti to £120,000 as he put the economi at the heart of labour's elect campaign.

the chancellor also unveil a on-off £200 council tax refund for pension and a rise in child tax credit. mr brown put 1p a pint on beer, 4p on a bottl of wine and 7p on 20 cigarett but froze petrol duti until septemb. the tori call it a "vote now, pai later" budget. the lib dem brand it a "stick plaster" for the elect.

tori leader michael howard predict the budget would do noth to help labour's "falter" elect campaign.

"thi govern and thi chancellor have run out of solut to the problem britain face," mr howard told mp. "their onli answer is to tax, to spend and to wast - to get peopl to vote now and pai later." he end hi respons with an elect challeng to labour, sai "bring it on". liber democrat leader charl kennedi attack mr brown for fail to mention the environ and for hi record on social justic. "how can it be right in britain todai that the poorest 20% pai more in tax, as a proport of their incom, than the richest 20%?" he ask.

mr kennedi criticis mr brown for fail to mention the "tick bomb" of council tax revalu, sai it wa "high time" the system wa replac by a "local tax base on the abil to pai". dure hi 49 minut speech mr brown told mp he had defi the pundit by hit hi growth target of 3.1% for 2004.

he said hi budget struck a balanc "between tax cut that ar afford, invest that ar essenti and stabil that is paramount". he reject across-the-board tax cut in favour of target help for famili. the child tax credit will rise in line with earn, give famili an extra £5 a week. in contrast, the person incom tax allow will rise onli in line with inflat from £4,745 to £4,895 next month. mr brown told mp child benefit would rise to a maximum of £63 a week for the first child and £111 for two children. despit hi giveawai, budget document show mr brown claw back £265m through a clampdown on tax avoid and increas revenu from a windfal tax on oil compani. he also scrap stamp duti relief for commerci properti in disadvantag area - a measur brought in just over three year ago. bbc polit editor andrew marr suggest the sweeten were not big enough to have a transform effect on voter. but trust in mr brown's econom stewardship would be a central elect issu, he said.

mr brown also unveil plan for a memori to the queen mother, fund through a special coin to celebr the queen's 80th birthdai. other measur includ equal tax statu for same-sex coupl and a deal with the council of mortgag lender to boost low cost home ownership. the level where peopl start pai inherit tax will also rise from £263,000 to £275,000 from april. mr brown said he had met hi financi "golden rule" with a £6bn surplu and he said public borrow would continu to fall over the next five year.

the economi had grown for 50 consecut quarter, he said, and wa forecast to continu do so over the next year, with a forecast of 3% to 3.5% in 2005 and 2.5% to 3% in 2006. the first £2bn of valu-for-monei save identifi in the gershon review have been achiev, the chancellor said. some 12,500 civil servant post have been ax, and 7,800 reloc out of the south east of england, he ad. snp leader alex salmond said mr brown had fail the "tartan test" as there were no measur to boost the scottish economi. simon thoma, of plaid cymru, call it a budget for middl england. uk independ parti leader roger knapman attack the plan for pension sai thei need "more monei and the digniti of be allow to spend it how thei want," not "free bu ride". the green parti said the budget wa a "wast opportun" for environment protect, ad: "brown obvious ha an ey on the come elect, and ha taken hi ey off the need of the planet."
