blair defend terror law chang

the prime minist ha defend measur to allow hous arrest without trial, sai "sever hundr" peopl in the uk ar plot terror attack.

the govern is face opposit from tori and lib dem mp and it own backbench as it prepar for the final common debat on the chang. but toni blair said there could be no concess on the "basic principl". mr blair told the bbc the "control order" would onli be us in the most limit circumst. critic in the opposit and civil right activist ar worri that the home secretari will have the power to issu the detent order. but the govern ha so far resist pressur for judg to be respons for make the order, instead sai judg will be abl to quash them.

an explan is be sent by home secretari charl clark to all mp and peer ahead of the final debat in the hous of common. on sundai, conserv shadow home secretari david davi claim judg would get the power to issu detent order. and liber democrat leader charl kennedi said some concess had alreadi been offer by the govern dure last-minut negoti. some 32 labour mp vote against the legisl last week. barbara follett, whose first husband wa kill while under hous arrest in south africa dure the apartheid era, confirm she would vote against the govern.

but the govern is continu to insist that "control order" must be issu by the home secretari. mr blair told bbc radio 4's woman's hour: "we ar be advis by the polic and the secur servic... "what thei sai is you have got to give us power in between mere surveil of these peopl - there ar sever hundr of them in thi countri who we believ ar engag in plot or try to commit terrorist act - you have got to give us power in between just survei them and be abl, be sure enough of the proof, to prosecut them beyond reason doubt. "and these will be restrict on their liberti that we will us onli in the most limit circumst."

a yougov poll in the daili telegraph suggest 75% of respond thought action wa sometim necessari against peopl who had not commit an offenc but who had been found by intellig servic to be plan a terrorist attack. but tori leader michael howard told bbc new that the govern wa again make a mistak in "rush" anti-terror legisl. "i veri much hope it would be possibl to reach a compromis on thi." he said after meet toni blair he had been left with the impress that "he realli wasn't interest in ani of the variou propos we have put forward". mr clark want hous arrest and other power to replac indefinit jail for terror suspect - someth the law lord have rule against on the basi that it breach human right. bbc polit correspond vicki young said some form of concess on the measur wa like to be need to get the legisl through the hous of lord, where labour doe not have a major and would requir support from other parti. shami chakrabarti, director of civil liberti pressur group liberti, said who wa abl to issu the control order wa not the main issu. she said the legisl wa "a travesti and a pervers of justic" and would remain "unpalat" even if a judg wa involv earli in the process.
