elect 'could be terror target'

terrorist might try to target the uk in the run-up to the elect, london's most senior polic offic ha said.

sir ian blair said terror group would rememb the effect of the madrid bomb on spain's gener elect last year. other potenti target were the royal wed and the uk's presid of the european union and g8, he said. he refus to sai if there wa specif inform about the risk of a pre-poll attack. no 10 wa similarli cautiou but said the threat wa real.

the comment come after toni blair defend hi controversi anti-terror propos, warn that it would be wrong to wait for an attack befor act. sir ian told a meet of the metropolitan polic author it would be "unwis" to specul about whether there wa specif inform about risk of a pre-elect attack. but he said: "terrorist have long memori. thei understand what happen in madrid and know what the impact of that wa on the spanish elector.

"thi year we ar respons for the eu presid, presid of the g8, a royal wed and a gener elect. "there ar obviou and enorm target which we have to deal with." sir ian said the debat over anti-terror plan wa on for politician, not the polic, who would enforc ani new power.

home secretari charl clark ha also warn that a madrid-style pre-elect bomb could happen in the uk too. ask about sir ian's comment, the prime minist's offici spokesman said: "we believ the threat is real." the spokesman declin to comment on whether the secur servic had receiv specif intellig relat to a possibl attack dure the elect campaign. he said no 10 did not disclos ani secur advic thei receiv. earlier, write in the daili telegraph, the prime minist conced that plan to detain suspect under hous arrest without trial were "difficult issu for ani govern". the common ha approv the measur despit consider opposit, with the govern's major more than halv as 32 labour rebel join tori and lib dem opposit. but mr blair insist: "there is no greater civil liberti than to live free from terrorist attack."

tori leader michael howard ha accus mr blair of steamrol the hous arrest plan and of "us nation secur for polit point score". liber democrat leader charl kennedi sai that the plan is a further exampl of labour's "authoritarian" respons to crise. the prevent of terror bill propos "control order", which as well as hous arrest could impos curfew, tag or ban on telephon and internet us. thei would replac current power to detain foreign terror suspect without trial, which the law lord have rule against. but critic ar concern that it would be the home secretari and not judg who decid to impos control order. the plan face further common scrutini on mondai befor pass to the lord.
