minimum wage increas to £5.05

the minimum wage will rise in octob, benefit more than 1m peopl, the govern ha announc.

adult must be paid at least £5.05 an hour, up from £4.85, while 18 to 21 year old will be paid £4.25. the recommend came from the low pai commiss which said the number of job had continu to grow sinc the minimum wage wa introduc in 1999. busi want it frozen, warn more rise could damag competit but the union want a £6 rate.

a further increas in the adult rate to £5.35 an hour is provision schedul for octob 2006. accord to the commiss, mani busi had found the last two signific increas in the minimum wage "challeng". "we have therefor recommend onli a slight increas abov averag earn, and concentr it in the second year to allow busi more time to absorb the impact," said chairman adair turner. the govern sai most of those on the minimum wage ar women - with mani work in clean, cater, shop and hairdress.

unveil the latest increas, mr blair said he want the minimum wage to becom a "symbol of decenc and fair". "for too long, poverti pai cap the aspir and prosper of far too mani hard-work famili," he said. "too often, peopl were told to make a choic between the indign of unemploy or the humili of poverti pai." chancellor gordon brown and transport secretari alistair darl promot the new in edinburgh, wale secretari peter hain and welsh first minist rhodri morgan in cardiff and northern ireland minist john spellar in belfast. the govern ha not accept the commiss's recommend that 21-year-old should be paid at the adult rate, but sai it will look again at the rate later on. mr brown said: "we want to do noth that can damag the employ opportun for young peopl, particularli young peopl enter the labour market for the first time." the govern ha said it will look at tougher action against the small number of employ who consist refus to pai the minimum wage.

the nation minimum wage is current set at £4.85 per hour for those ag 22 and abov, and at £4.10 for those ag 18 to 21. a £3 per hour minimum wage wa introduc last octob for 16 to 17-year-old, but apprentic ar exempt. the trade union congress welcom the increas, but ha call for a £6 minimum wage by next year. but the confeder of british industri (cbi) call for a "paus year" to assess the impact of the abov inflat rise in the minimum wage in octob. and david frost, director of the british chamber of commerc, said: "the level of increas each year ha increas by rate far outstrip the rate of inflat. "what employ ar sai to us now is that it's at a level where it's start to bite into the competit of compani right across the countri."

the liber democrat' econom spokesman vincent cabl said he support the move to rais the minimum wage. "it's not just good for the worker themselv but it lift them out of benefit and therefor is good for the exchequ too," he said. conserv leader michael howard said he accept the principl of the minimum wage and would not "seek to disturb" the increas. speak on bbc radio 4's woman's hour, mr howard hint the tori might go into the gener elect with a promis to cancel incom tax for the lowest-paid worker. "there ar peopl on veri low salari, veri low incom inde who realli shouldn't be pai incom tax," he said.

it would be better to decreas tax on earn below £12,000 a year, with sai no tax on below £6,000. the loss in tax can be recoup by have a 50pc tax band for peopl make over £100,000. our minimum wage is go to be effect almost twice the us minimum wage, yet our economi per person is onli 2/3rd of the us! perhap, we have to realli start question why some product cost 50-60% more here than thei do in the us. thi combin with the tax decreas would make the pound the low-paid peopl do make go much further.

it's still not good enough! i got a part time job at 16 when i wa do my a-level in an attempt to get a littl monei save for uni. thi wa onli 2 year ago and i wa get paid £2.75 an hour, and work as hard as ani of the older staff, mayb it's about time 16 - 21 year old got a fair wage!

we must rememb that the minimum wage is onli part of the pictur and must not rise to a level that make emploi peopl unattract and encourag busi to send work and therefor job abroad. still govern and local council emploi staff via their contractor that pai at the minimum wage or veri close to it. an easi wai for the govern to do as it preach would be to insist on floor pai level for all govern worker and take ten of thousand of civil servant out of the social secur system all togeth.

ani increas is certainli welcom new. howev for all those whine about the pressur of an increas in the minimum wage i would simpli ask them: "would you be happi to work for less than £5.05 an hour?". thought not ... so then, don't expect other to either.

i can't believ that so mani of these comment ar against the minimum wage! also i person take great offenc at the insinu that peopl earn minimum wage were lazi at school if everyon went to univers then who would serv you in the supermarket and clean up after you? it's about time that these hardwork peopl ar reward with onli what thei deserv and have earn fair pai and a bit of respect wouldn't go a miss either. br /&gt;

thi is good new. the minimum wage ha put a sens of equal back into a worker's relationship with their employ. wage ar suppos to be a fair reflect of an employe's effort. for too long wage were a point of exploit - what could an employ get awai with. in veri simplist term thi put a pressur to keep low-paid wage low. with the minimum wage thi downward pressur is at least partli remov.

it is also interest to read the comment from so call busi leader. thei ar the first to defend the right and privileg of board to award fat-cat salari, bonus and pension right to the select few but thei ar the first to attack polici that ar put in place to mere defend the right of those that realli make those fat cat purr!

i feel there ar both neg and posit to the increas, on on hand some busi will struggl to stai afloat but on the other hand in todai world mani young peopl can't afford to move out as properti cost too much and onli by earn more will thei be abl to get on in life. it true mani mai get complac but the minimum wage could be look at as more of a step stone rather than a hand out.

here come the usual whine about how difficult it will be for busi! we all rememb michael howard's protest that the minimum wage would cost a million job when it wa introduc - funni how he's gone quiet on that on! job have continu to increas sinc thi human legisl wa brought in. i think if ani job is worth do then it's worth be paid a fair wage for, and £5.05 is hardli a fortun. if your busi cannot pai it worker a decent wage then mayb it's not be run properli and if it fold, a better-run compani will take over it duti and emploi more peopl, so everybodi win except incompet busi owner!

great keep at it toni, i rememb the despair of the 80s and the low wage employ got awai with. at last we can make a differ to peopl and reward them for work. we can't afford not to pai a decent wage. it's not a job at ani price economi, goodby sweatshop hello decenc.

the increas in minimum wage is a good thing. live in the southwest where hous price and rent have increas huge (like the rest of the countri) over the past 5 year ha made live for you averag 18-21 year old veri difficult. in the south west the increas in live cost have not been match by an increas in pai, for exampl a job i did in plymouth wa underpaid to an equival worker in exet by 75p an hour. hopefulli the increas in the minimum wage will bring in to balanc pai on a region and nation level, and in turn allow peopl like myself who do work hard, but might never earn a 6 figur salari the chanc to branch out on our own.

i work at a larg hospit where the contractor provid all ancillari servic - domest, cater & porter etc - pai the minimum wage of £4.85 as the basic rate. someon ha to do these unglamor job and earn enough to live decent. how dare peopl suggest we ar lazi or complac for accept these job and these wage? who do thei think will be carri out these public servic job if contractor ar allow to pai as littl as their conscienc allow?

thi is definit the right step in the right direct. it show that thi govern care for the low incom earner as well. thi is a million vote more. good strategi isn't it?

although i would not deni peopl the minimum wage increas, it time stink. i am quit prepar for a raft of 'bribe' to come from the govern befor the elect and a raft of tax afterward, thei ar plai us for the fool thei think we ar.

thi is extrem bad new for ani busi - whether thei ar small and medium enterpris or even larg compani. by increas overhead, for busi, there will be an almost certain rise in cost to the consum who while thei openli welcom the idea of an increas in the minimum wage ar the same peopl who still want to bui that shirt, or that pair of trainer for next to noth. the extra cost thi increas will bring, will onli be reflect in the price of the good we bui, which, in turn will onli serv to discourag compani from set-up busi in the uk, or encourag those compani alreadi base here to look elsewher. the jubil felt by "low-paid" worker here will soon give wai to miseri as thei lose their job.

thi will onli lead to a reduct in job. why have mani of the call centr job gone to india. blair sai's the economi is "strong and stabl economi" howev consum debt and the countri's debt is at it highest and now thei heap thi onto busi, that will have no choic but to cut the workforc.

the time cannot be coincident. thi is blatant election and should be expos as such.

andrew in derbi complain that rais the minimum wage is 'blatant election'. i don't mind if it is. in our degrad democraci, elect ar the on time when elit realli have to worri about do someth concret for the major. my onli complaint is the paltri figur be discuss. if my math is right, a 35 hour week at £5.05 give you an annual incom just over £9,000 and rais it to £6 leav it under £11,000. the union should be put the govern under pressur for much more. busi complain might like to take a look at corpor pai, sharehold payout and profit befor wonder if pai a live wage is realli a control factor in the viabil of their firm.

i am all for lift the minimum wage of worker to a reason level, but we have to accept that with thi will come competit from oversea worker. also small busi will have to be abl to afford thi manpow cost. we ar alreadi see a sweep chang in it work be lost to india where peopl ar paid much less. it is difficult for me to understand that onli five year ago cheap labour abroad wa classifi as 'sweat shop', but now we ar told it is global competit. with our manufactur industri in seriou declin the countri cannot be entir servic industri without someth tangibl to serv. there ha to be someth at the top of the food chain and that is manufactur. the whole pictur need to be look at.

thi is great new, but that might be becaus i work for minimum wage. seem a good idea and will hopefulli be an incent to those who live to claim to actual get a job. when you can "earn" more from claim than you can from work, there is no incent. perhap a step in the right direct.

if the tuc get their wai a veri larg number of sme will have to close - thi will put more peopl out of work. how then will the govern fudg the unemploy figur! the govern know it is not big busi that keep the economi go but the sme but we alwai get overlook, thei will onli take notic if these larg corpor close and move to other countri, after all thei ar predominantli own by foreign compani. we ar a specialist compani but with these increas have alreadi had an effect on us and we have lost work anoth on will close us.

while i'm delight for those on low pai that thi increas is be put forward, i am extrem concern at the implic for small busi. as an employe for a small nurseri, i know thi increas will caus great hardship for my employ, who ha been unabl to increas salari for higher paid employe becaus of last octob's increas for the lower paid employe - who were origin be paid slightli abov the minimum but ar now on the minimum. thi latest increas of 20p an hour will caus even more financi hardship. if the rate rise to £6 then i can forese mani small busi have to pai off employe.

the increas in minimum wage will have a seriou effect on my busi. although we pai abov the minimum level we will have to increas our pai rate to maintain the differenti. the rais is well abov inflat and without signific increas in sale, it will mean that i will not be take on a new member of staff as plan and i will be look to reduc the total hour work by the other member of staff, overtim be the first to go.

i current emploi 42 staff whose wage mirror the nation minimum wage. increas abov inflat ar fine but all of my busi is conduct with local author who will not accept abov inflat rise in my servic deliveri. 80% of my cost ar labour. the other aspect that is alwai hidden is that the threshold for tax credit do not move in line with these increas so that all that happen is that employe tax credit support is reduc by the amount of the increas, therebi save the govern monei but increas the financi burden on small to medium busi

it is veri good that the govern ha decid to increas the minimum wage - thi should hopefulli motiv peopl to undertak the "lower statu" job.

i know about thi great idea - don't bother get qualif, laze about at school, no need to do anyth other than attend so your parent don't get fine becaus rememb, when you do eventu start work, doesn't matter how lazi you ar, you'll be guarante a decent wage. the on who suffer ar the employ.

i hope that if industri and busi have to pai thi new rate that mr blair and mr brown will increas tax allow and rais nation insur threshold so that the treasuri won't take some of thi increas off the peopl thei sai thei ar help, or is thi just anoth form of stealth tax on busi through the back door?

i don't believ in the minimum wage at all! i think job should creat their own wage valu and that if peopl want higher wage thei should earn them. now, befor everyon think that i am some "rich-kid", i can assur you i am not. i came from a veri much work class background and start work 20 year ago on a youth opportun program earn £25 per week. i work hard, went to colleg part time, got my a-level and degre & better myself. i now earn a 6 figur salari. i did that through hard work and get off my backsid. a minimum wage just make peopl complac.

to ashlei, of swindon: when you earn £25 per week, it wa worth someth. these dai that £25 would need to be near to £60 to have the equival bui power. i might add, that thank to success govern hold down the tax allow threshold below inflat, peopl earn the minimum wage ar pai tax that thei never would have done 10 year ago at equival wage. "in my dai" type argument ar a view that belong in the 'your dai' - 20 year ago!

as a graduat work for minimum wage, i welcom ani increas of pai i can get. i disagre with ashlei, swindon sai i have to work harder to get more pai. i have my gcse's a-level and a degre and have chosen to work for a small busi that can't afford the wage i should be get, i should be on at least 3x what i'm get but thei can't afford it. we all work hard but the monei is just not there. but on the plu side i love my job and wouldn't chang it just to get more pai.

as an employ of staff in sever shop the last rise in the minimum wage cost my compani an addit £5000 per year. these next rise will cost me more. i have to get the monei from somewher so pass it on to custom. so no on realli win in the end.

in answer to emma from sleaford regard no on realli win in the end... on the contrari mr blair win - he win becaus he obvious ha announc thi to be a vote winner and hi treasuri win becaus as an employ you will know that the amount of tax and nation insur that the govern will receiv from all the minimum wage increas will rise and of cours not onli will be pai out higher wage but as an employ higher employ ni contribut as well. if the minimum wage increas again and if it hit anywher near the £6.00 mark there will be 12 more peopl on the employ line and on more small busi go bankrupt - name mine. think of us employ as well mr blair, we ar not all big corpor earn million.

all worker should be entitl to a fair dai's pai for a fair dai's work. how mani peopl on the minimum wage have ani hope of obtain a mortgag or save toward retir?

it is good new for mani asian live in uk. student who do odd job can increas their incom and can help there famili in their home countri. i thank mr. blair and hi govern for increas in the nation minimum wage.
