at a glanc: tori health check

the uk' opposit conserv have unveil plan to introduc health check for immigr if thei win the gener elect. here's a guid to the plan:

peopl come to live and work in britain from outsid the eu. if thei plan to stai six month or more and ar from a countri with lot of tb, thei would have to have a chest x-rai and further test if appropri. all peopl from outsid the european union who want to stai a year or more will have to undergo a full medic.

tuberculosi, hepat b and hiv. a posit test for tb would automat mean visa applic be turn down. all other condit would be dealt with on a case by case basi.

peopl would have to prove thei have an accept standard of health and ar unlik to be a danger to public health in the uk, or impos signific cost or demand on the nh. thei would also, if appropri, have to be abl to undertak the work or studi thei appli to come here for.

peopl come to britain for less than six month would not be medic test unless thei intend to work in health care, childcar or teach. children and pregnant women want to live in britain perman would not have to have a chest x-rai for tb. under 16s would not face test for hepat and hiv.

the tori sai peopl flee persecut will not be deni sanctuari in britain becaus of poor health. howev, thei will undergo health check to ensur thei receiv the right medic treatment and do not spread infecti diseas.

thei claim govern figur show that tb in england ha increas by 25% over the last 10 year and that nearli two-third of peopl with the diseas were born oversea. thei also believ there should be stricter control over who come into britain to ensur thei ar not a public health risk. thei sai the plan will protect access to the nh.

applic will be test in their home countri. onli asylum seeker will be test in the uk onc their refuge statu is establish.

home offic minist de brown sai the govern alreadi routin check peopl for tb if thei come into the uk for six month or more from high-risk countri. recent medic check were carri out on 175,000 peopl at heathrow airport and 10,000 at gatwick. from those test, about 100 infecti case of tb were found.

the tori sai 47 other countri across the world impos requir of thi kind. the parti ha look at the wai the system is oper in australia, canada and new zealand. the tori propos ar "quit close model" on the new zealand system.

labour claim the polici is littl more than a "desper attempt to catch up with labour's five-year plan" for immigr and asylum, which wa publish last week. thi sai health screen for tb will be target on applic from high-risk area befor thei ar given entri clearanc. those who ar diagnos with the diseas would then need to seek treatment at home befor be allow to enter the uk. the liber democrat have warn labour and the tori thei were "in danger of pander to prejudic rather than challeng it".
