labour accus of 'eu propaganda'

a "taxpay subsidis propaganda exercis" on the eu is be us to lull the british public into a fals sens of secur, sai the tori.

shadow foreign secretari michael ancram told mp a new white paper wa part of try to soften up opinion ahead of the referendum on the eu constitut. hi claim were deni by foreign secretari jack straw, who accus the tori of "run scare" of debat. eu cooper would help get better uk immigr control, he argu.

mr straw us thursdai's common debat to launch the new white paper on the prospect for the eu in 2005. secur, stabil and prosper would be the kei theme when the uk took over the chairmanship of the eu in juli, said mr straw. africa and climat chang would also featur highli. he said the uk wa try to ensur futur eu budget were limit to 1% of europ's econom output and were spent "where it add most valu". mr straw promis to continu to ensur the uk's budget rebat, secur in 1984 by margaret thatcher, wa "fulli justifi". "we, like all other countri, have a veto on ani chang propos in thi area," he said.

mr ancram condemn the document, which the foreign offic sai ha cost about £2,500 to design, print and deliv. "isn't the reason that the govern is now involv in a taxpay subsidis propaganda exercis to try to sell the new eu to the countri in advanc of the forthcom referendum and gener elect?," he ask. the tori spokesman also criticis the govern for claim the eu constitut would make europ easier to understand. "the govern, last week, had to publish a commentari of 500 page to try and explain thi 'easi and simpl' constitut to the british peopl," he said. "who ar thei try to kid?" the propos question for the constitut referendum is: "should the unit kingdom approv the treati establish a constitut for the european union?" the elector commiss on thursdai said it wa satisfi the question wa easi to understand. the govern ha suggest the referendum on the constitut could take place in spring 2006, with the tori set to campaign for a "no" vote.

mr ancram said minist were prolong uncertainti by put the vote off until the latest date possibl. the foreign secretari hit back by sai tori attitud to europ had help keep the parti out of power for more than a decad. mr straw argu cooper with european partner could bring a "level plai field" on immigr and asylum control. "you ar set your face against all of these thing," he ad. for the liber democrat, sir menzi campbel said the uk should not ignor the need to reform the eu common agricultur polici. chang wa particularli import for develop countri want access to market, he argu. sir menzi wa among those worri about plan, back by the uk, to lift the arm embargo impos on china after the tiananmen squar massacr. mr straw said no decis had been taken - chines human right had improv but not by enough.
