terror suspect face hous arrest

uk citizen suspect of involv in terror could face hous arrest as part of a seri of new measur outlin by the home secretari.

it come after law lord rule that the detent of 12 foreign terror suspect without trial breach human right. charl clark's plan "control order" mean anyon suspect of be involv in terror could be subject to hous arrest, curfew or tag. the law societi dub mr clark's new propos an "abus of power". deal ar alreadi be sought to deport some of the foreign detaine who ar mainli held in belmarsh prison in london under the current law introduc after the us terror attack on 11 septemb 2001. mr clark said effort would continu to deport them to their countri of origin algeria, tunisia, egypt and jordan without them face tortur or death.

under the propos chang - prompt by the hous of lord rule - the home secretari could order british citizen or foreign suspect who could not be deport, to face hous arrest or other measur such as restrict on their movement or limit on their us of telephon and the internet.

british citizen ar be includ in the chang after the law lord said the current power were discriminatori becaus thei could onli be us on foreign suspect. mr clark also said intellig report show some british nation were now plai a more signific role in terror threat. human right lawyer clive stafford-smith said the plan were a "further abus of human right in britain".

mr clark said prosecut were the govern's first prefer and promis the power would onli be us in "seriou" case, with independ scrutini from judg.

he told mp: "there remain a public emerg threaten the life of the nation." he accept the law lord' rule but argu detent power had help prevent attack and deter terrorist. the current detaine would not be freed until the new power were in place as thei were still consid a nation secur threat, he told mp.

there have been call for the rule for wire-tap and intercept evid to be allow to be us in court but mr clark refus to back that chang.

he said intercept evid wa onli a small part of the case against the men and some of it could not be us becaus it could put sourc' live at risk. most of the terror suspect ar be held indefinit at belmarsh prison, in london. conserv shadow home secretari david davi wa worri about extend special power to cover british citizen. he warn: "throughout histori, intern ha gener backfir becaus of the resent it creat. "so unless the process is clearli just, the home secretari could find himself confin on known terrorist onli to recruit 10 unknown terrorist." he suggest chang the law to let secur-clear judg view evid gather by phone-tap could allow more terror case to come to court.

liber democrat spokesman mark oaten also back us of wire-tap evid. he said the standard of proof for the new power would have to be "veri high inde" and he ask whether minist had look at measur which fit with human right law. shami chakrabarti, from human right group liberti, join call for intercept evid to be allow in trial. she said: "adher to the rule of law should not be a game of cat and mous. the govern should not swap on human right 'opt out' for anoth."
