straw back end china embargo

uk foreign secretari jack straw ha defend plan to end the european union's arm embargo on china, despit opposit from the us and japan.

mr straw, visit beij, note arm embargo appli to china, burma and zimbabw but not to north korea, which he said had a terribl right record. the eu impos it arm ban on china in 1989 after troop open fire on protestor in tiananmen squar. mr straw also sign a deal on china-uk tourism. it is expect thi would increas the number of chines tourist by 40,000 per year, provid $120m in revenu. china ha in the past said it see the weapon ban as polit driven, and doe not want it lift in order to bui more weapon. mr straw, speak at a joint new confer with chines foreign minist li zhaox, stress thi point. "the result of ani decis [to lift the arm embargo] should not be an increas in arm export from european union member state to china, either in quantit or qualit term," mr straw said. earlier thi week he said he expect the embargo to be lift within six month.

but mr straw face tough opposit to the move. tori foreign affair spokesman michael ancram said lift the arm embargo would be "irrespons" and would damag britain's relat with the us. he said mr straw wa "naiv beyond belief" if he accept china's claim it doe not want the ban lift in order to bui weapon. the french want the embargo lift becaus thei want to sell arm to china; the chines want it lift becaus thei want to bui arm and battlefield technolog from europ." when he wa in tokyo earlier thi week, japanes foreign minist nobutaka machimura told the british minist that hi plan to remov the embargo wa " a worri issu that concern the secur and environ of not onli japan, but also east asia overal". washington argu that if the embargo is lift, it could lead to a bui spree for arm that china could us to threaten it diplomat rival taiwan. beij sai taiwan is part of chines territori and want to unit it with the mainland, by forc if necessari. the us is bound by law to help taiwan defend itself. washington ha also voic concern that the human right condit in china have not improv enough to merit an end to the embargo. it is an issu rais by human right group too. brad adam, from the uk's human right watch, said: "thi is a huge polit signal from europ that thei ar will to forget about tiananmen squar." but mr straw insist the eu's code of conduct on arm export meant tough criteria on human right still had to be met if the embargo wa lift.
