pre-poll clash on tax and spend

labour and the tori have clash over tax and spend plan as the row over gordon brown's budget turn into a full scale pre-elect battl.

toni blair claim a tori govern would "cut" £35bn from public servic hit school, hospit and polic. tori chairman liam fox accus labour of "at best misrepresent at worst a downright lie" and said the "smear" tactic were a sign of desper. the lib dem accus mr brown of duck the issu of council tax rise.

appear togeth at a labour poster launch, the prime minist hail hi chancellor's "brilliant" perform. and he claim the tori would cut £35bn from public servic, which wa the equival of sack everi doctor and teacher in the uk.

the tori said thei would not cut spend but agre public spend would increas more slowli under their plan - lead to a total of £33.5bn less spend than that anticip by labour by 2011. but thei sai not a singl doctor, teacher or nurs will be cut. dr fox said: "we have said we will be spend more, year on year over and abov inflat. "and to call that a cut is at best a misrepresent, at worst a downright lie."

tori shadow chancellor oliv letwin also predict mr brown would have to rais tax by £10bn or £11bn if labour wa re-elect becaus he wa borrow and spend too much. for the lib dem, vinc cabl said the chancellor had fail to deal with the "loom problem" of revalu of council tax band which he argu would result in "massiv increas" for some. mr brown and mr blair stage a show of uniti on thursdai morn, the dai after the chancellor deliv a record-break ninth budget.

mr cabl said taxat as a share of the economi would go up under all three of the main parti. the chancellor meanwhil insist hi spend plan were "afford". in wednesdai's budget, mr brown doubl the level at which homebuy pai stamp duti, unveil a rise in child tax credit and a £200 council tax refund for over-65s. defend the plan, he told todai: "i will take no risk with the stabil of the economi. "all our spend plan announc yesterdai [wednesdai], includ what we can do for pension, as well as for young famili and on stamp duti and inherit tax, all these ar cost and afford." in a further sign, if ani were need, that the elect is approach, the hous of common author have formal told mp their offic will be "deep clean" dure the three-week poll campaign. mr blair ha yet to name the dai - but it is wide expect to be 5 mai.
