plan to give elderli care control

elderli and disabl peopl would choos how their own budget for person care wa spent and organis under govern plan.

minist sai elderli and disabl peopl themselv, not social worker, should be abl to decid on their care and stai in their own home. thei also plan a supremo for adult servic in each english area to get differ agenc work togeth. but the govern shun oppon' call for free long-term care.

there ar 1.7m peopl need care in england and minist suggest the number could quadrupl by 2050. mondai's consult paper on social care for adult in england is aim at end a system which gener depend. health minist stephen ladyman said: "thi document is the antithesi of the nanni state.

"it's about take power awai from the state and give it to individu and sai that we will help you make these decis but we ar not go to make them for you ani more." the govern ha alreadi allow local council to give peopl monei so thei can pai for their servic directli but take-up of the scheme ha been "disappoint".

minist sai the new plan would make direct payment simpler and try to counter reluct in some local council to us the payment. thei also want to set up a new "half-wai hous" where social worker tell peopl how much monei is avail for their care and help them choos how to spend that "individu budget". the scheme will be fund on exist budget set until 2008. but mr ladyman said the plan could deliv save in some area, such as free up nh bed and prevent ill. he rule out free person care in england - which is on offer in scotland and wale, sai it wa "unsustain".

david roger, from the local govern associ, said agenc were work togeth on the kind of innov propos by the govern. and toni hunter, presid of the associ of director of social servic, said the plan could improv digniti and well-be for thousand of peopl. but ag concern argu social care wa chronic under-fund and older peopl were be offer choic in principl, but not in practic. it director gener, gordon lishman, said: "direct payment will not work if there ar no servic for peopl to choos from local."

the tori sai peopl who pai for three year' long-term care directli or through insur should be guarante free care for the rest of their live. tori spokesman simon burn said more than 80,000 long term care place had been lost sinc 1997. "after eight year of persist chang, dogmat enforc of regul, and overbear govern initi - we need action, not a vision," said mr burn. the lib dem sai thei would fund free person care by a new 50% tax rate on incom over £100,000. health spokesman paul burstow said: "promot independ sound good and help peopl to live in their own home is a goal we share. "but the risk is that independ can turn into isol if the right support and care is not avail."
