eu rule 'won't stop uk spend'

the shape of the uk's economi in graphic

but he deni that he wa rule out british membership of the euro despit sai there would be no assess of the five econom test thi year. mr brown said that it wa vital the uk continu to invest in infrastructur, scienc, and educ in the futur. otherwis it would be overtaken by the like of china, he told mp.

the chancellor said that the eu's plan chang in the growth and stabil pact - design to ensur that countri in the euro zone do not borrow too much - would forc britain to run a budget surplu of 1% over the econom cycl.

under mr brown's rule, the uk current budget must be in balanc over the econom cycl, but public invest is not count as part of that deficit. he told the hous of common treasuri select committe that the eu rule "make it difficult for a low debt countri to run the invest programm that ar necessari to improv it infrastructur". but he argu that the eu wa move in the direct of the uk principl, and would eventu recognis the need to consid budget deficit over a longer period than on year, to includ invest, and to take more account of the total size of govern debt as well as the balanc each year. under mr brown's "sustain invest" rule, govern debt should be under 40% - in contrast to the 60% allow under the growth and stabil pact.

mr brown vigor deni conserv claim that he had in effect fiddl the figur to ensur that he met hi own fiscal rule. in march the offic of nation statist (on) reclassifi £3.4bn of spend on road repair as public invest - shortli befor the chancellor announc in the budget that he would meet hi own fiscal budget rule by onli £6bn. conserv michael fallon ask mr brown whether the treasuri had lean on on to make thi chang, and said that the on had receiv a written paper from the treasuri on thi matter. but the chancellor said mr fallon wa "impugn the integr" of the offic of nation statist and said the decis had been made complet independ. mr brown also deni that he wa increas tax to fund hi spend gap. he told the treasuri select committe that a grow economi meant more peopl in work and more profit for compani which would boost treasuri coffer.

earlier, ex-conserv chancellor ken clark welcom a relax of the rule govern the euro zone. speak on radio 4's todai programm, mr clark said polit give and take would replac more "rigid" rule. but fellow tori david heathcoat-amori said the folli of the system wa in try to run europ's vari economi on on set of rule. "the essenti point here is that the stabil and growth pact ha turn out to be a fake," he said. "the warn is about the european constitut, which we ar go to have a vote on in a year or two, and that centralis and entrench these rule in a constitut. it give more power to brussel to co-ordin thing like employ and econom polici." but, speak to the treasuri select committe, gordon brown said that the new stabil pact rule were not part of a bind treati and could be chang again the futur - potenti open the wai for futur euro membership. "the condit for euro entri ar unchang by thi new decis about the stabil and growth pact," mr. brown said.
