parliament's record of scandal

in a lock room at the heart of parliament there is a hive of scandal.

sex, betray and custodi of children ar all there in thi affair but thi time it ha noth to do with the recent troubl of david blunkett or bori johnson.

few realis that westminst in effect ha it own divorc den. for sprinkl among 12 floor of archiv ar blow-by-blow account of marit break-up - and now you can search what's there onlin. until 1857, the onli wai in england to get a full divorc which allow re-marriag wa to obtain an act of parliament by prove adulteri or life-threaten cruelti. the legaci is page of testimoni us in the hear, date back to 1670, all record among the 325,000 item which fill the 12 floor of the parliamentari archiv in parliament's victoria tower. most peopl research their famili histori want to discov some tale of illicit love. thi give them the chanc.

divorc by parliament wa an expens process open realli onli to the rich but the record also includ the testimoni of maid, butler and coachmen about their master and mistress. among the record is the stori of jane campbel, the first woman ever to divorc her husband. that happen in 1801 after she had discov her husband, edward addison, had commit adulteri with her sister jessi.

a transcript of evid from jessi's maid, amelia laugher, show her tell how addison frequent pass by her on the wai to the room where she had just put her mistress nake to bed. it must have been a killer blow to addison's case - he had alreadi fled abroad rather than pai the £5,000 damag order by a civil court. as well as make divorc histori, jane campbel won custodi of her children - unusu for a woman at the time. but divorc ar by no mean the onli document in the archiv which hold person detail of peopl often far remov from polit and parliament.

there ar the protest return from 1642 - list of the protest who pledg to "maintain the true reform protest religion". there ar detail of foreign nation made british citizen by act of parliament, includ compos georg frider handel in 1727. and the mass of privat bill which, for exampl authoris the build of railwai and road, contain both the name and address of those involv and testimoni give peopl a uniqu perspect on how their ancestor oppos them.

tax bill mai be an extra sourc for pedigre hunter - the longest stretch for about 300m and is longer than the palac of westminst itself, list the name of appoint tax collector. thi wealth of materi ha long been open to the public at the hous of lord record offic, with visitor abl to phone ahead when thei want to view particular item in the search room. but now five year of work ha produc an onlin catalogu. david prior, assist clerk of the archiv, sai the catalogu open up new possibl for research. "befor, you just could not do it, you face trawl through page and page of print materi," he sai. mr prior see the chang as part of a wider revolut in archiv gener. "the archiv profess mai look fairli staid but is in an enorm period of chang, mainli motiv by the potenti of it, which is open up all sort of vista for us," he sai.

the archiv do, of cours, hold record of high (and low) polit too for both hous of parliament, includ copi of all act pass sinc 1497 - the oldest deal with the employ of worker in the woollen industri in norfolk. record for the common onli date back to 1834 - anyth earlier wa wipe out by the fire which destroi most of the parliament build in 1834.

but that still leav some of the most import document of uk polit histori - part of the bill of right from 1689, the death warrant for charl i, the privat paper and diari of major politician such as david lloyd georg and andrew bonar law. there is also the 1606 act establish 5 novemb as a thanksgiv dai - the year after the gunpowd plot. that document is like to featur in the exhibit the archiv will put on next year as part of a seri of event across london to mark the 400th anniversari of gui fawk' conspiraci. as mr prior remark as we walk by shelf after shelf of vellum (parchment made from goat's skin): "all human life is here."
