economi focu for elect battl

britain's econom futur will be at the heart of labour's poll campaign, chancellor gordon brown ha said.

he wa speak after cabinet member held their last meet at no 10 befor the expect elect announc. he said voter would recognis that labour had brought stabil and growth, and would continu to do so. meanwhil the tori outlin their plan to tackl "yob cultur" and the lib dem gave more detail about their propos to replac council tax. earlier the archbishop of canterburi wrote to all three parti urg them not to fight the elect by exploit peopl's fear.

in an open letter, he call on them not to turn the elect into a competit about who can most effect frighten voter about terror, asylum, and crime. he said thei should concentr instead on issu such as the environ, intern develop and the arm trade, famili polici, and the reform of the crimin justic system.

shadow foreign secretari michael ancram said: "we have fought a veri posit campaign. i think he will want to look quit carefulli at what jack straw said about michael howard."

in a speech to the foreign polici centr mr straw said of the tori leader: "he is clever, fluent and tactic, but he is not wise. "he lack strategi and good judgment, and hi quick temper and impetuos too often get the better of him." the foreign secretari told the bbc: "i wa make the observ that becaus of michael howard's impetuos you can get lurch of polici." liber democrat chairman matthew taylor said: "peopl ar alreadi realli turn off by the kind of campaign the other ar fight and you will see us put emphasi on some of these huge issu face the world, particularli the environ."

labour's focu on the economi as their kei messag - came on the dai a new report wa publish by the institut of fiscal studi, suggest that household incom have fallen for the first time in more than a decad. the if sai the drop partli reflect measur announc in what it call the chancellor's tax-rais budget of 2002. the treasuri dismiss the research as "complet rubbish". parti elect supremo alan milburn said the appar drop in averag incom wa becaus self-emploi peopl had been affect by a "world downturn" which hit their profit. sinc 1997, the report averag take-home incom had "risen by 20% in real term" if you took out the self-emploi, mr milburn told bbc radio 4's todai programm. mr brown also dismiss the figur insist that the "typic famili" ha been much better off under labour.
