blair readi to call elect

toni blair seem certain to end week of phonei war on mondai and announc there will be a gener elect on 5 mai.

the date ha been pencil into the diari of politician and polit journalist for mani month and, despit occasion panic that the prime minist wa on the verg of call a snap poll, it ha not shift. over the week, there have been ani number of sign that 050505 wa go to be the dai mr blair would go for an histor third term. and the call of a special polit cabinet meet ha onli ad to the belief that the announc is immin. the prime minist and hi campaign boss alan milburn have alreadi insist the elect will be fought on the economi and what thei claim is a stark choic between labour's stabil and invest against tori cut and boom and bust.

and chancellor gordon brown ha step into the front line of the campaign - to the relief of mani of hi support in westminst - to underlin that econom messag. and it is certain on of the big argument at the centr of the elect battl will be around the big parti' tax and spend polici.

dure the phonei campaign, labour got into troubl over it central claim that michael howard wa plan £35 bn cut in public servic. the prime minist found himself struggl to explain how a smaller, slower increas in spend plan by the tori compar to labour's plan wa a cut. and it look like the labour campaign - which wa alreadi be criticis for be thrown into defens mode by mr howard on issu such as immigr and health - wa on the rock. then deputi conserv chairman howard flight wa report to have suggest mr howard wa secretli plan even bigger "cut".

he wa sack for hi gaff, but the damag had been done and the falter labour campaign wa back on track. a second central argument will be over taxat, with the tori claim the chancellor ha to fill a black hole at the centr of hi financ and will be forc to rais tax if labour win again. mr brown slap that asid, claim hi forecast ar accur and that previou claim of loom econom disast have prove inaccur. as usual, the liber democrat will have to fight to get their voic heard over the sound of battl between the two big parti. but leader charl kennedi believ he ha set out a distinct manifesto with plan for a tax rise for the wealthiest to financ extra spend and the abolit of the council tax in favour of a local incom tax. other issu ar certain to plai a part - immigr and asylum, the war on iraq, law and order and educ, for exampl. but, as ever, it will be the economi that will almost certainli decid the outcom. and, whatev that outcom, 2005 is set to be a far more live, even bitter campaign than 2001's non-event.
