labour face 'cold call' inquiri

labour is to be investig by a watchdog over claim it elect campaign ha broken the rule on "cold call" household.

the inform commission is to look into a complaint from the lib dem about how labour us it call centr. the lib dem sai labour is telephon peopl who have sign up to make sure thei do not get market call. labour deni break rule. it sai call ar not market if thei just ask about peopl's vote intent. the parti sai it would expect the watchdog to take complaint serious but it ha clear legal advic on the issu.

telephon call centr ar expect to be us as never befor by all the three major parti in the run-up to the gener elect. but seven million telephon number ar on the telephon prefer servic (tp) list, which ban unsolicit sale and market call. lib dem chairman matthew taylor ha written to the watchdog accus labour of a "flagrant and systemat breach" of the law govern the tp.

he sai the initi call mai not be market but it identifi voter to whom the parti can send promot materi in the futur. hi letter to the commission quot from a labour parti handbook about "identifi target voter". and it quot a stevenag labour parti member' newslett explain how voter will be telephon about their vote intent.

the voter ar put in 24 categori accord to their last known vote intent, rang from "labour (firm)" to "target (conserv)" - those who support the parti in the past but thi time will be vote tori. the newslett sai: "us the inform we know about peopl, we can send them direct mail. "for exampl, we could send the target (conserv) peopl a letter from someon who had defect from the tori to labour explain the reason why vote tori is a bad idea or we could send labour (weak) peopl a letter encourag them to sign up for a postal vote."

mr taylor tell the commission: "it is clear beyond peradventur from the abov that the labour parti is engag in a larg-scale voter id project for subsequ promot purpos through target and segment mail. "insofar as thi project is direct at tp subscrib, it is equal clear that it is unlaw." the lib dem rais worri about labour and conserv call in februari and 680 peopl have sign up to the websit thei set up to help peopl to complain. a parti offici said there wa onli scatter evid of the tori break the rule but peopl had complain everi dai about labour.

a spokeswoman for the inform commission's offic said it wa examin on complaint about polit call - understood to be mr taylor's. "we ar investig on of the complaint where some evid ha been given to us," she said. "obvious evid is need for us to start investig." the commission's offic will now examin the lib dem evid. "the guidanc is that cold call can be made as long as no market is go on," said the spokeswoman. if labour is judg to have broken the rule, it will be ask stop immedi. if it fail to do so after two or three warn letter, the commission can issu an enforc notic spell out what the parti need to do or stop do.

the parti could appeal against the decis to an inform tribun. if the appeal fail and it continu break the rule, it could be fine up to £5,000. labour sai it avoid those on tp list when telephon peopl about membership or fundrais but not when make "voter identif" call. ask about the commission's inquiri, a labour spokesman told bbc new: "we expect the inform commission to take ani complaint serious. howev, we ar absolut clear that we haven't broken ani rule. "as the inform commission himself ha said, if peopl ar not market someth, if thei ar ask them which wai thei ar go to vote, thei ar not in breach of the law. "we alwai ask everyon we phone up whether thei would be happi to be contact by the labour parti again."
