tori reject rethink on ax mp

sack mp howard flight's local conserv associ ha insist he will not be it candid at the gener elect.

russel tanguai, agent for arundel and south down tori, said mr flight wa inelig to be a candid and the associ wa seek a substitut. the new come despit mr flight's alli sai thei had enough support to hold a meet to discuss hi fate. mr flight land in troubl over remark on tori tax and spend plan. he quit as tori deputi chairman after appar suggest the tori plan extra spend cut - but he want to continu as an mp.

tori headquart sai he cannot stand as a conserv candid becaus he is no longer an approv candid. mr tanguai back that view on tuesdai, sai: "howard flight is inelig to stand as a conserv parti candid. "the associ is in the process of select a new candid."

but the local tori chairman made similar comment on fridai and dissent continu. two local councillor who back mr flight met mr tanguai and the local associ's chairman in arundel on tuesdai afternoon but did not comment as thei left the meet. mr flight sai he will not stand down as a candid unless hi local parti instruct him to do so at an extraordinari gener meet (egm). the mp, who is consult hi lawyer, told bbc new: "thei select me and thei, if you like, dispos of me or keep me." mr flight's support also sai thei have the 50 signatur need to trigger the egm.

at a new confer, mr howard insist he had plai by the parti's rule. the tori leader, who argu he is ensur honesti, said: "we do not sai on thing in privat and anoth thing in public."

labour elect campaign coordin alan milburn said the tori were in "turmoil" becaus mr flight had expos their hidden plan. the comment were not a "on-off", he said, claim mr howard and other senior tori were obsess commit to cut public spend. liber democrat chairman matthew taylor said: "whilst i disagre with howard flight's view, it seem extraordinari to sack somebodi for tell the truth."

it ha also emerg mr howard ha suspend slough's constitu conserv associ for refus to deselect it candid. adrian hilton wa abandon after suggest the sign of the maastricht treati, under john major's govern, wa an act of treason. the cathol herald also highlight articl he wrote about the role of catholic in the european union. mr hilton wa chosen to fight the seat after the previou candid, robert ould, wa sack for be pictur with a rang of gun and a hunt knife. slough conserv associ ha now been place on "support statu" and is be run from conserv campaign headquart, sai a senior parti spokesman.

mr hilton on tuesdai said he wa consid take legal action against hi depos. he said the local parti had onli learn of the final decis on the bbc new websit on mondai even. "there ar peopl at central offic who ar behav like littl dictat and seemingli peopl who ar ordinari member ar be treat with contempt," he said. the parti sai it did try to contact the local conserv chairman.
