ex-pm lord callaghan di ag 92

former labour prime minist lord callaghan ha di on the ev of hi 93rd birthdai.

he pass awai at home in east sussex, just 11 dai after hi wife audrei di ag 91. lord callaghan, who leav a son and two daughter, wa the longest live former british pm in histori. he enter down street in 1976 after the resign of harold wilson. prime minist toni blair call him a "giant" of the labour movement. he held each of the major offic of chancellor, home secretari, foreign secretari and prime minist dure hi career and becam lord callaghan of cardiff in 1987.

chancellor gordon brown said the former pm would be "mourn throughout the world". "it wa a commit to public servic that brought jim callaghan into parliament in 1945, and while jim rose to the top he never forgot hi root." former cabinet colleagu lord hatterslei said hi first reaction on hear the new wa "immens sad".

"it wa not a major surpris - i knew what a blow the death of hi wife audrei wa a few dai ago," he said. "he wa a decent kindli man who help me and my gener of politician immens.

"the labour parti and the countri will be poorer without him." conserv peer lord heseltin said that despit their polit differ, he and lord callaghan becam friend. "you don't get to the premiership unless you have a streak of determin," he said. "but i saw the other side of jim callaghan, he becam a person friend in a wai, and my famili and i were veri fond of him." tori leader michael howard said he would be rememb with "affect and respect". liber democrat leader charl kennedi said: "when i wa first elect in 1983 as the youngest mp, he wa the "father of the hous" and as such took a veri keen interest in my earli dai in parliament.

"he wa alwai full of warmth and wisdom." born in 1912 and educ at portsmouth northern secondari school, lord callaghan becam a clerk at the inland revenu. he enlist in the royal navi in 1942 and rose to the rank of lieuten. elect for a cardiff constitu at the 1945 gener elect, he repres cardiff seat for more than 40 year. after serv as a junior minist in the attle govern, he becam chancellor of the exchequ when labour return to power in 1964.

with sterl under pressur, he resist devalu for three year, befor be forc into it in 1967. hi polit career wa not without controversi. when he refus to support prime minist harold wilson and dame barbara castl over the latter's trade union manifesto, in place of strife, in 1968, he said: "i am not go to resign. thei will have to throw me out". when home secretari, he order british troop to march into the street of belfast to protect cathol civilian amid rise violenc - a decis that ha domin british polit into the 21st centuri.

as foreign secretari in the earli 1970s, lord callaghan kept an open mind about the uk's entri into the common market, see the advantag of the uk's entri. he onc travel to idi amin's uganda in 1975 to plead for the life of a british lectur, denni hill, who wa under a death sentenc for treason.

hi polit life wa often temper by battl against the hard left of the parti. in the autumn of 1978, befor the "winter of discont" when trade union carri out strike that brought the countri to a standstil, lord callaghan refus to hold an earli elect which mai have deliv a labour victori. as garbag lai uncollect in the street and hospit staff, council worker and even gravedigg stai off work, lord callaghan fail to predict the mood of the countri. when britain went to the poll in 1979, tori leader margaret thatcher wa swept into power in a landslid victori, and lord callaghan resign as labour leader.
