voter 'don't trust politician'

eight out of 10 voter do not trust politician to tell the truth, a new poll conduct for the bbc suggest.

and 87% of the 1,000 adult quizz by icm for bbc new 24 said politician did not deliv what thei promis. the poll come after foreign secretari jack straw predict trust would be "the kei choic" at the next elect. both the tori and the lib dem ar keen to emphasis a perceiv lack of trust in toni blair, follow hi claim over iraqi weapon.

but accord to the bbc poll, 61% said the issu of trust made no differ to whether or not thei would vote at the next elect, wide expect on 5 mai. the poll also look at what lai behind the lack of trust in politician. some 87% said politician did not keep the promis thei made befor elect, while 92% said thei never gave "a straight answer". just under three-quarter of respond (73%) said politician had shown themselv to be dishonest too often.

mr straw told activist in blackburn on thursdai that voter would have to decid at the next elect which parti "best deserv" their "futur trust". "that in the end is the kei choic at the next elect."

he acknowledg that the public had lost faith in labour, but suggest it could persuad peopl to "reinvest their trust with us" if the parti could overcom tori attempt to spread cynic in polit. the conserv ar keen to highlight the trust issu. dure hi respons to gordon brown's budget statement on tuesdai, michael howard compar the chancellor's figur to the prime minist's claim about iraq's weapon of mass destruct.

the lib dem ar also keen to highlight the trust issu, with charl kennedi ha claim voter had a "fundament lack of trust in the prime minist". and the green parti unveil a billboard opposit the palac of westminst accus the govern of ly over the iraq war.

former educ secretari estel morri told bbc new 24 that there wa a "real problem of trust" between the public and the politician. she said she did not feel her own colleagu could be trust, but suggest the "three-corner relationship" between the press, politician and the public had a hand in the issu. the public wa often turn off by sit on the sidelin in "the battl of word" between the politician and the journalist, she ad. lib dem foreign affair spokesman menzi campbel said the iraq war had hit trust in politician hard. "issu of war and peac, life and death do have a veri damag effect on the credibl of politician". martin bell, who won the tatton seat from tori neil hamilton on anti-corrupt platform, said politician often fail to see themselv as other did. "we need public figur we trust to tell the truth and who can see themselv as other see them."
