abort not a poll issu - blair

toni blair doe not believ abort should be an elect issu, argu it is a matter for individu conscienc.

the prime minist's spokesman set out mr blair's view after the top cathol in england and wale back michael howard's stanc on abort. the tori leader support a reduct in the legal limit from 24 week to 20 and ha said current rule ar "tantamount to abort on demand". the prime minist ha made it clear he ha no plan to the chang the law.

mr blair's spokesman said: "the cathol church ha a well-known posit on thi issu and it wa on of mani issu the cardin mention and therefor it should be seen in that context." hi word came as cardin cormac murphi o'connor, the archbishop of westminst, back mr howard's stanc and distanc himself from labour. in a statement, he said abort wa a "veri kei issu", sai: "the polici support by mr howard is on that we would commend, on the wai to a full abandon of abort."

cardin o'connor claim labour had "develop" the notion that it wa the natur parti of cathol, but he said: "we ar not go to suggest peopl support on particular parti." the famili plan associ sai a reduct would particularli affect young women who often seek help later. more than 180,000 women in england and wale had termin last year, of which fewer than 1% were carri out between 22 and 24 week.

in the cosmopolitan interview mr howard said: "i believ abort should be avail to everyon, but the law should be chang. "in the past i vote for a restrict to 22 week and i would be prepar to go down to 20." all three main parti sai the issu is on for each mp's conscienc, rather than on where there is a parti-wide polici. mr howard stress hi view were hi person view. shadow home secretari david davi said he understood mr howard had been signal that a conserv govern would allow a common vote on the issu. mr blair and liber democrat leader charl kennedi also gave their view dure interview, conduct as part of the magazin's "high heel vote" campaign.

mr blair, who last year deni he plan to join hi wife and four children in the cathol faith despit regularli take communion, said abort wa a "difficult issu". "howev much i dislik the idea of abort, you should not criminalis a woman who, in veri difficult circumst, make that choic. "obvious there is a time beyond which you can't have an abort, and we have no plan to chang that although the debat will continu." mr kennedi said he had previous vote for a 22-week limit but medic advanc mean "i don't know what i would do now". the roman cathol archbishop of cardiff, the most reverend peter smith, told bbc radio 4's todai programm that the church mere want peopl to "reflect on issu in light of the gospel" befor vote. ann weyman, chief execut of the famili plan associ, ask: "what is the benefit to women, or to the potenti child, of forc a woman to have a babi?" anti-abort group the pro-life allianc "congratul" mr howard on hi new stanc, but said it did not go far enough.
