profil: gordon brown

the ultim prize of 10 down street mai continu to elud him but, as he prepar to deliv a record-break ninth budget, gordon brown can at least consol himself with the thought that he is the longest serv chancellor of modern time.

he reach that mileston last june, when he overtook david lloyd georg, who serv for seven year and 43 dai between 1908 and 1915. how much longer mr brown will continu in the job is not clear (he onc said there ar two type of chancellor: "those who fail and those who get out in time.") there ar rumour he will be move to the foreign offic if labour win the gener elect. but, for now, mr brown domin the domest polit scene like few chancellor - or politician - befor him.

gordon brown wa born in glasgow on 20 februari 1951, the son of a church of scotland minist in the small fife town of kirkcaldi. at 12, he wa canvass for labour and by hi 20s he wa a lead polit activist in scotland. he achiev a first class degre in histori from edinburgh univers, where he went on to complet a phd. hi earli career wa spent lectur, work in televis and make a name for himself in the scottish labour parti.

hi first attempt to enter westminst, for edinburgh south in 1979, wa thwart by the present tori spokesman on foreign affair, michael ancram. but in 1983, he took dunfermlin east, a new constitu includ rosyth naval base, pit villag and coastal town.

enter westminst, he came to share an offic with the newli elect mp for sedgefield, toni blair. within four year, mr brown had gain hi first frontbench post as shadow chief secretari to the treasuri. he becam shadow chancellor under john smith's leadership in 1992. after the death of leader john smith in 1994 he stood asid, agre to give toni blair a clear run at the leadership dure a now infam meal at the granita restaur in islington.

the other part of the deal, that mr blair will on dai stand down in favour of the chancellor, is the stuff of westminst legend. mr blair's support sai such a deal never exist and endless newspap column - and even a televis film - have been devot to the alleg deal. but if hi leadership ambit were at least temporarili thwart in 1994, mr brown continu hi devot to polit. dure the 1997 elect campaign, he is said to have work an averag of 18 hour a dai, six dai a week after run on a treadmil for an hour each morn.

thi dedic to hi career wa underlin by a comment by mr brown's former girlfriend of five year, princess marguerit of romania, the eldest daughter of ex-king michael of romania, who said a relationship with him wa "polit, polit, polit".

if that wa true then, mr brown, who marri pr execut sarah macaulai in 2000, chang hi perspect when the coupl were hit by tragedi earli in 2002. their daughter jennif di in edinburgh royal infirmari, 10 dai after be born seven week prematur. a year later, in octob 2003, the coupl had a son - john - an event which again gave the chancellor an opportun to show hi softer side. a trip to africa earlier thi year, to publicis hi scheme to cancel the debt of poor nation, also gave the chancellor an opportun to show hi more human side.

the ideolog differ between mr brown and mr blair remain rel modest. the chancellor oppos the further encroach of the market into the nh and is seen as be more "old labour" than mr blair in hi approach to wealth redistribut. but their share belief that market econom ar compat with social justic continu to form the ideolog heart of the new labour project. yet thei ar portrai by the media as be lock in almost perman conflict, with mr brown supposedli nurs resent at be betrai by hi younger down street neighbour over the success. mr blair, for hi part, is said to be frustrat that hi public servic reform ar be thwart by a veng mr brown, who reportedli delight in keep the prime minist in the dark over the content of hi budget until the last possibl minut. after a recent run of neg headlin, labour mp took the unpreced step of make a direct appeal to the two men stop bicker, for the good of the parti. event like thi, and the testimoni of former ministeri colleagu, make it imposs to dismiss the brown/blair feud as just journalist hearsai, cook up by hack and camp follow in the hothous atmospher of westminst. how much it damag the abil of govern to do it job is open to question.

a truce appear to have been call in the run up to the gener elect after a fresh spat wa spark by blairit alan milburn be brought in over the head of mr brown to run the elect campaign. but with the tori have appear to get the better of the pre-elect campaign thu far there ar report that mr brown - us the budget as a springboard - is to revitalis labour's campaign. amid all thi it is easi to forget that mr brown remain the man most like to succe mr blair as labour leader. there mai be no shortag of possibl contend for the crown - includ mr milburn - but none can command the sort of support in the parliamentari parti and beyond that mr brown can. and mr blair's decis to name hi own retir date ha at least given mr brown someth to aim for - even if the prime minist's intent to "serv a full third term" if elect, took the shine off the announc for the chancellor and hi support.
