boateng to step down at elect

paul boateng, chief secretari to the treasuri, is to step down as a labour mp at the forthcom gener elect.

mr boateng, 53, is to becom the uk's high commission to south africa. he wa the uk's first black cabinet minist when appoint to hi post in 2002, promot from the home offic, where he had been prison minist. mr boateng serv on the greater london council befor be elect to parliament in 1987, declar "todai brent south, tomorrow soweto". he will succe the previou high commission, ann grant, shortli after the next elect, which is wide expect to be held on 5 mai. the appoint is depend on labour's re-elect.

prime minist toni blair said: "paul ha been both a valu colleagu and a trust friend for mani year. "he ha made an immens contribut to public life in britain and i am delight that he ha agre to continu that servic to the peopl of britain by act as their repres in south africa." chancellor gordon brown said: "over the past eight year paul's contribut to the treasuri and the govern ha been except - and it ha been my privileg to have work close with him close at the treasuri. "i congratul paul on hi new appoint. "he ha displai huge dedic to the caus of african develop for mani year and it is fit that, in thi year of challeng and opportun for the african contin, paul ha been given such a pivot role in our fight against poverti and injustic. "i look forward to continu to work with paul on thi vital agenda."

mr boateng said: "i am honour to be ask to take on thi role, especi as it come at such an integr time for our relationship with south africa and the african contin. "there shall be mani new challeng and opportun ahead and i look forward to embrac them with great anticip." ask if he wa appoint as the result of a "fair and open" competit, he repli: "i have been appoint as a result of a process that's been us befor by labour and conserv govern to appoint peopl of all parti who have relev experi." mr boateng also laugh off suggest that hi re-elect in brent south seat had been in danger sai it wa "on of the safest labour seat in the countri". shadow foreign secretari michael ancram said that, if in govern, he would refus to approv either mr boateng's appoint or that of ex-cabinet minist helen liddel as high commission to australia. "mr blair's appoint of paul boateng is the latest exampl of a worri trend of fail toni's croni be appoint to senior diplomat post," he said.
