howard hit back at mongrel jibe

michael howard ha said a claim by peter hain that the tori leader is act like an "attack mongrel" show labour is "rattl" by the opposit.

in an upbeat speech to hi parti's spring confer in brighton, he said labour's campaign tactic prove the tori were hit home. mr hain made the claim about tori tactic in the anti-terror bill debat. "someth tell me that someon, somewher out there is just a littl bit rattl," mr howard said. mr hain, leader of the common, told bbc radio four's todai programm that mr howard's stanc on the govern's anti-terror legisl wa put the countri at risk. he then accus the tori leader of behav like an "attack mongrel" and "plai opposit for opposit sake".

mr howard told hi parti that labour would "do anyth, sai anyth, claim anyth to cling on to offic at all cost". "so far thi year thei have compar me to fagin, to shylock and to a fly pig. thi morn peter hain even call me a mongrel. "i don't know about you, but someth tell me that someon, somewher out there is just a littl bit rattl." environ secretari margaret beckett reject mr howard's comment, tell radio 4's pm programm that labour wa not "rattl". "we have a veri real duti to try to get peopl to focu on michael howard's record, what the propos ar that he is try to put forward to the countri and also the mani exampl we ar see now of what we believ is realli poor judgement on hi behalf."

mr howard said tori polici on school, tax, immigr and crime were strike a chord with voter.

"sinc the begin of thi year - elect year - we've been make the polit weather," he told the parti confer. mr howard deni he had been "plai polit" by rais the case of margaret dixon, whose oper had been cancel seven time, which grab headlin for the parti two week ago. and he hit back at labour claim he had us mr dixon as a "human shield". "she's not a human shield mr blair, she's a human be." mr howard said hi parti plan for immigr quota, which have also been the focu of much media coverag, were not "racist" - just "common sens".

he pledg cleaner hospit and better school disciplin, with a promis to get rid of "polit correct" in the nation curriculum and give everyon to the same chanc of a "decent" state educ as he had. "i come from an ordinari famili. if the teenag michael howard were appli to cambridg todai, gordon brown would love me."

and he stress hi parti's commit to cut tax and red tape and increas the basic state pension in line with earn. he finish with a person appeal to parti activist to go out and win the next elect. "on dai you will be abl to tell your children and grandchildren as i will tell mine, 'i wa there. i did my bit. i plai my part. i help to win that famou elect - the elect that transform our countri for the better'." labour elect co-ordin alan milburn said: "michael howard's speech todai confirm what we have alwai said - that hi onli strategi is opportun but he ha no forward vision for the countri. in refer to the appear of mr howard's famili on the confer stage with him, mr milburn said: "michael howard is perfectli entitl to pose with hi famili todai. "but it is the hard work famili across britain that will be damag by hi plan to cut £35bn from public spend."
