howard's unfinish busi

"he's not finish yet," whisper the conserv parti person as your report attempt to slip quietli from the hall. and inde he wasn't. michael howard had alreadi broken awai from the print text of hi speech, at hi parti's spring confer in brighton, to deliv a smart rebuff to peter hain's descript of him as an "attack mongrel", claim such person abus meant labour wa "rattl" by the tori challeng. and here he wa again, move to the front of the stage as the parti faith rose to their feet in applaus, to make a person, ad-lib appeal to them to go out and fight for victori. "on dai you will be abl to tell your children and grandchildren as i will tell mine, 'i wa there. i did my bit. i plai my part. i help to win that famou elect - the elect that transform our countri for the better'." the speech, which wa pepper with refer to mr howard's humbl begin as the "child of immigr", had been introduc by hi son nick, a traine vicar, who prais hi father's honesti. "i alwai know where i am with him becaus all my life he ha meant what he ha said to me," he said. mr howard wa also join on stage by hi wife sandra, daughter larissa and stepson sholto.

the audienc's reaction to all of thi wa a littl mute by parti confer standard.

but mr howard's overal messag - that the tori have labour on the run and that thei can win the next elect - did not sound quit as hollow as it might have done six month ago. mr howard claim, with some justif, that the tori' campaign ha got off to a "great start". thei have had labour on the back foot over immigr, with toni blair hastili ad a sixth promis on the issu to hi latest pledg card, and have even manag to score point in tradit labour territori such as health and educ. the stunt involv margaret dixon with her postpon oper and maria hutch with concern about her son's special need educ mai not have been to everyon's tast, but thei succeed in bring the issu aliv and forc labour to react. senior tori believ thei ar, at long last, start to tap into the public mood, cut through the background nois to connect with the ordinari voter. their latest poster campaign flag up a rang of polici from better school disciplin, cleaner hospit ("i mean, how hard is it to keep a hospit clean?") and immigr ("it's not racist to impos limit on immigr") - under the headlin "ar you think what we ar think?" thi, thei sai, contrast with labour's neg campaign, such as it now infam "fly pig" poster.

oliv letwin, on of the men lampoon in the labour poster, affect bewilder at what he believ is labour's loss of it onc sure foot on the campaign trail. the peter hain "mongrel" attack, he sai, is just the latest exampl of the parti get the tone wrong - a by-product, he claim, of the tori set the agenda.

"i have to sai i don't understand what thei ar do. the labour machin appear to be in some kind of state of shock, it doesn't seem to know what to do." a few week of posit headlin have also done wonder for tori activist' moral - like to be a crucial factor at an elect which, most analyst seem to agre, will hing on which parti can get their core support out. "it ha been a fantast few week," said 20-year-old polit student nick vaughan. "our polici have been get in the media and there is a sens that we can win. i wouldn't be here if i didn't think we could." some deleg even spoke of the next elect be like 1970, when ted heath, behind in the poll and written off by the pundit, snatch victori from harold wilson's labour parti.

thei all insist it wa not go to be a re-run of 2001. "we thought in 2001 we were go to dent that massiv major but it just didn't happen," said john murrai, of aldridg browhil conserv. "it wa veri disappoint. thi time it realli is differ. "whoever is run our strategi from the top ha got it bang on. blair is on the back foot." much of the credit for the tori' recent chang of fortun must go to lynton crosbi, the australian strategist who succeed in turn polit veteran and appar no-hoper john howard, of australia's liber parti, into a serial elect winner. the tori still have a mountain climb if michael howard is to walk through the door of number 10. even allow for the natur bia against the tori in some opinion poll, thei ar still behind, when to have a chanc of overturn labour's whop major, thei should realli be ahead. but as thei gear up for the start of the campaign proper, the parti at least ha reason to hope that, like hi australian namesak, mr howard realli isn't finish yet.
