blair 'up for it' ahead of poll

toni blair sai hi person stand in the ey of voter will be "an issu" in the gener elect.

the prime minist said he wa "up for it" as the countri wait to go to the poll, possibl in a matter of week. he told the observ govern life wa a "constant barrag of attack" but said he would not stai in charg if he felt unabl to contribut. mr blair also spoke of meet mani peopl across the countri with concern about the compens cultur.

he said britain wa in danger of needless panic over public safeti issu.

speak amid a flurri of pre-elect campaign, the prime minist said: "i am an issu, i alwai will be. whoever is the prime minist will be." he ad: "if you ar afraid to take critic, you should go and do anoth job." ask if he would quit as leader if he felt like a liabil to labour, he said: "it's import alwai not to do the job unless you feel you have someth to contribut." whether he still had someth to offer, he said, wa a judgement for peopl to make. mr blair's assess is like to be seen as a signal that replac him would not bring an upsurg in fortun for the labour administr.

hi comment come as the co-chairman of the conserv parti, liam fox, on saturdai call him "a disappoint of histor proport" as a prime minist. mr blair said he had learn from a seri of at time tough encount with member of the public, dure question and answer session across the countri in recent week. he pledg to clamp down on britain's grow compens cultur, which ha brought concern that doctor, teacher and other profession ar be hamper in their work by the fear of frivol lawsuit.

"i wa quit shock to be told by peopl who were run a nurseri that thei were worri about let the kid out into the playground when it wa wet in case on of them slip and fell and thei end up have a legal case [against them]," he said.

"we have got to look at a wai of get peopl protect on that." mr blair said the govern wa also look at "how to make sure that legal aid is not abus with action against doctor and other", as part of a review be carri out by the lord chancellor's depart. and there should be "real debat" about the risk pose by public safeti threat, he said. "we ar in danger of - depend on whatev is the media campaign of the dai - end up spend liter hundr, sometim million of pound meet quit a small risk."

hi comment come after the govern announc it is to spend £200m on drug to treat a possibl outbreak of bird flu, and the sudan 1 food scare. meanwhil, common leader peter hain ha warn that on the campaign trail he ha seen "danger complac" be displai by labour voter convinc of a gener elect victori. if labour voter "stai at home" in margin seat thei could see tori leader michael howard "come in the back door to number 10 with the tradesman's kei to number 10, get into power", he ad.
