lib dem unveil elect slogan

the liber democrat will present themselv as "the real altern" in the forthcom gener elect campaign, charl kennedi ha said.

unveil the slogan at the parti's spring confer, he said there wa no "glass ceil" to it ambit. he told deleg that labour had abus the public's trust and that the tori had fail to oppos them. in respons, the conserv insist that their wa the parti that understood the "forgotten major".

speak in harrog mr kennedi said: "peopl want a credibl, principl polit parti which offer a differ vision of what britain can be."

onli the liber democrat stood against the iraq war, he said, and thei had also provid strong opposit to the govern's plan on id card, anti-terror measur and taxat. he said: "if you vote conserv in 2001 ... what good did it do you? your vote wa wast. "what peopl need wa ... a parti which wa listen to their concern; a parti which wa prepar to stand up and sai so; a parti which said no to the prime minist." respond to the claim tori parti co-chairman liam fox said: "like labour, the lib dem ar soft on crime, support higher tax, oppos control immigr and support give europ more control over our live."

mr kennedi also outlin hi parti's plan to impos a 50% incom tax rate on earn over £100,000 a year. the monei would be us to help pai for kei polici such as abolish univers tuition fee, scrap council tax in favour of local incom tax, and provid free care for the elderli, he said. labour and the tori claim the sum do not add up, and that work famili would be hardest hit. mr kennedi said: "britain is the fourth-largest economi in the world. we have world class busi and a world class workforc.

"so why ar two million of our pension live below the poverti line?" all the parti ar campaign hard for an expect elect in mai, although prime minist toni blair ha not confirm ani time. earlier, mr kennedi told radio 4's todai programm there wa no possibl of form a coalit with labour in the event of a hung parliament. "we go into the elect as an independ parti and we come out as an independ parti," he said. mr kennedi ha been under fire in recent dai for miss mondai's common vote on the govern's controversi anti-terror law, along with 16 other lib dem mp. on saturdai, the lib dem chief execut said it wa "just a cock-up" that mr kennedi and hi colleagu miss the vote, which the govern won by a major of onli 14. "nobodi had ani idea that wa go to happen," lord rennard told report at the parti confer. he said he wa certain mp would get anoth chanc to vote against the plan.
