off-colour garden storm to win

britain's jason garden shook off an upset stomach to win the 60m at sundai's leipzig intern meet.

garden clock 6.56 second to equal the meet record and finish well ahead of germani's marc blume, who cross the line in 6.67 sec. the world indoor champion said: "i got to the airport and my stomach wa upset and i wa vomit. i almost went home. "i felt a littl better sundai morn but decid i'd onli run in the main race. then everyth went perfectli." garden, part of the great britain 4x100m quartet that won gold at the athen olymp, will now turn hi attent to next weekend's norwich union european indoor trial in sheffield.

"given i am still off-colour i know there is plenti more in the tank and i expect to get faster in the next few week," he said. "it's just a case of chip awai as i have done in previou year and the result will come." scotland's ian macki wa also in action in leipzig. he step down from hi favour 400m to 200m to finish third in 21.72 sec. germani's alexand kosenkow won the race in 21.07 sec with dutchman patrick van balkom second in 21.58 sec. there were plenti of other senior british athlet show their indoor form over the weekend. promis 60m hurdler

clock a new uk record of 7.98 second at a meet in norwai. the 24-year-old reach the mark in her heat but had to settl for joint first place with former aaa champion dian allahgreen in the final.

, who broke onto the intern scene at the olymp game last season, set an indoor person best of 16.50m in the tripl jump at a meet in ghent. that leap - 37cm short of brazilian winner jadel gregorio's effort - wa good enough to qualifi for the european indoor championship. at the same meet,

finish third in 7.27 second in a high-class women's 60m. the event wa won by european medal favourit christin arron of franc while belgium rival kim gevaert wa second. britain's joic maduaka finish fifth in 7.35. olymp bronz heptathlon medallist

made a low-kei return to action at an indoor meet in birmingham. the 28-year-old clear 1.76m to win the high jump and threw 13.86m in the women's shot put.
