mcilroi aim for madrid titl

northern ireland man jame mcilroi is confid he can win hi first major titl at thi weekend's spar european indoor championship in madrid.

the 28-year-old ha been in great form in recent week and will go in as on of the 800 metr favourit. "i believ after my win abroad and in our trial race in sheffield, i can run my race from the front, back or middl," said mcilroi. new coach toni lester ha help get mcilroi's career back on track. the 28-year-old 800 metr runner ha not alwai match hi promis with perform but believ hi decis to chang coach and move base will bring the reward. mcilroi now live in windsor and feel hi career ha been transform by the no-nonsens leadership style of former armi sergeant lester. lester is better known for hi work with 400m runner roger black and mark richardson in the past but under hi guidanc mcilroi ha secur five win thi indoor season.

mcilroi now claim he is in hi best shape sinc finish fourth for ireland at the outdoor european championship in 1998. "that wa my last decent year," said mcilroi, who temporarili retir last august befor return to the sport under lester's shrewd guidanc. "befor, everi race wa like try to climb mount everest and i now know you can't do it on your own. "try to succe saw me sometim stand half-dead and terrifi on the start line, which becam a bit too much." mcilroi, who wa compar to the like of sebastian coe, steve cram and steve ovett in hi younger dai, is now compet without the benefit of nation lotteri fund. that situat could chang if he maintain hi current form and repeat the world-class time he produc in the 800m and 1000m at major race in erfurt and stuttgart earlier thi season. russian dmitrii bogdanov won at the same madrid venu last week and then claim the european championship race would be between himself, dutchman arnoud okken and antonio reina of spain but mcilroi is unfaz.

he admit: "he look quit good in hi win and fair enough everyon ha the right to their own opinion. "i never write myself off and let's face it, i haven't or look like be beaten thi season." and mcilroi, whose time of on minut 46.68second in erfurt elev him to sixth place on the uk all-time list, is also alreadi look beyond madrid. he said: "i've been much more focus thi year about my career and have such a good team around me ha been veri import. "ultim of cours, thi weekend is a mean to an end and that is get prepar for the summer's world championship. "that ambit ha meant that i've had onli two night out sinc last august. the rest of my time ha seen me just concentr on rebuild my career."
