greek pair attend drug hear

greek sprinter kosta kenteri and katerina thanou have appear befor an independ tribun which will decid if their ban should stand.

thei were given provision suspens by athlet' rule bodi the iaaf in decemb for fail to take drug test befor the athen olymp. the pair arriv with former coach christo tzeko to give evid at the hellen olymp committe's offic. a decis is expect to be announc befor the end of februari. whatev the rule, all parti will have the right to appeal to the court of arbitr for sport. yianni papadoyiannaki, who wa head of the greek olymp team at the athen game last year, also testifi at the tribun, along with other greek sport offici and athlet. "i believ the tribun will reach a decis that will uphold the stand of the institut," said papadoyiannaki. "whatev the athlet have done, we must not forget that thei have offer us great moment." kenteri won 200m gold at the 2000 sydnei olymp, while thanou won silver in the 100m.

thei withdrew from the athen game last august after miss drug test on the ev of the open ceremoni. the pair spent four dai in a hospit, claim thei had been injur in a motorcycl crash. the five-member tribun, assembl by the hellen associ of amateur athlet, is also examin alleg that kenteri and thanou avoid test in tel aviv and chicago befor the game. tzeko wa also ban for two year by the iaaf. he face charg of assist in the us of prohibit substanc and tamper with the dope inspect process. all three, who have repeatedli deni the alleg, have also been charg by a greek prosecutor and face trial for dope-relat charg. a trial date ha not been set. in impos two-year suspens on the duo on 22 decemb, the iaaf describ their explan for miss the test as "unaccept". but kenteri' lawyer gregori ioannidi told bbc sport earlier thi week he wa confid the sprinter would be clear of the charg of fail to give inform on their locat and refus to submit to test. "we refut both charg as unsubstanti and illog," he said. "there have been certain breach in the correct applic of the rule on behalf of the sport author and their offici, and these procedur breach have also violat my client's right. "there is also evid that prove the fact that my client ha been persecut."
