2004: an irish athlet year

2004 won't be rememb as on of irish athlet' great year.

the year began with that optim which invari and unaccount, seem to herald an upcom olympiad. but come late august, a few hot dai in the magnific stadium in athen told us of the true strength of irish athlet - or to be more accur, the lack of it. sonia o'sullivan's olymp farewel apart, there wa littl to stir the emot of irish athlet watcher. but after the disastr build-up to the game, we shouldn't have been surpris. at the start of the year, an o'sullivan had been earmark as ireland's best medal prospect but as it turn out, walker gillian never even made it to the start line becaus of injuri. less than a week befor the olymp, the sport wa rock by new that 10,000m hope cathal lombard had test for the ban substanc epo. lombard's shatter of mark carrol's nation 10,000m record in april had alreadi set tongu wag but even the most cynic of observ, were surpris when he wa rumbl after an irish sport council sting oper. the corkman quickli held hi hand up in admiss and wa promptli hand a two-year ban from the sport.

back at pre-olymp ranch in greec, it must have seem that thing couldn't have got ani wors but thei veri nearli did with walker jami costin lucki to escap with hi life after be involv in a car crash near athen. onc the track and field action began in athen, a familiar pattern of underachiev emerg although alistair cragg's perform in be the onli athlet from a european nation to qualifi for the 5,000m final did offer hope for the futur. our belov sonia scrape into the women's 5k final as a fastest loser and for a coupl of dai, the countri attempt to delud itself into believ that she might be in the medal shake-up. as it happen, she went out the back door earli in the final although there wa noth undignifi about the wai that she insist on finish the race over a minut behind winner meseret defar. it later transpir that sonia had been suffer from a stomach bug in the 48 hour befor the final although typic, the cobhwoman plai down the effect of the ill. amazingli, she wa back in action a coupl of week later when beat a world-class field at the flora lite 5k road race in london and while her major championship dai mai be over, it's unlik that we have seen the last of her in competit. at least sonia manag to make it to athen. at the start of the year, sever northern ireland athlet had genuin hope of qualifi for the game but come august, an out-of-form and injur paul brizzel wa the lone standard bearer for the provinc. the ballymena man gave it a lash but hi achil problem, and a bad lane draw, meant a time of 21.00 and an earli exit.

jame mcilroi, gareth turnbul, zoe brown and paul mckee all had to be content with watch the athen action on their televis screen. 800m hope mcilroi never got near hi best dure the summer and a fourth place in the british trial effect end hi hope of make the plane. the injuri-plagu turnbul game travel round europ in search of the 1500m qualifi mark but 3:39 wa the best he could achiev, after miss sever month train dure the previou winter. a linger hamstr probem and a viru wreck mckee's athen ambit and both he and turnbul deserv a slice of better fortun in 2005. pole vaulter brown had hope for a vote of confid from the british selector after she had achiev the athen b standard but the call never came. as the summer end, stalwart catherina mckiernan and dermot donnelli hung up their competit spike. mckiernan had to candidli acknowledg that time had crept up on her after sever injuri-ravag year. donnelli and hi annadal strider team-mate later suffer tragedi when their friend and clubman andi campbel wa found dead at hi home on 18 decemb. a larg turnout of athlet-love folk turn out in west belfast to offer their respect to the campbel famili and andi's mani friend. as onli death can, it put the year's athlet happen in a sharp perspect.
