athen memori soar abov low

well, it's goodby to anoth olymp year and as usual there were plenti of high and low in athen.

obvious, there's no get awai from the differ fortun of kelli holm and paula radcliff. but i want to remind you of a few more event that made 2004 anoth year to rememb - or forget - for athlet. 

 

on of my favourit olymp moment wa kelli's success in the 800m.

win that race wa the kei to her success becaus if she won that then the 1500m would be a bit of a formal. kelli had been full of "should i, shouldn't i?" thought about go for the doubl in athen. i thought why wouldn't you do the 800m, it's your best event? it wa such good fun to comment on her 1500m and it wa nice to be abl to be part of her athen stori. 

 

the victori for the british men's 4x100m relai team wa a bit of a surpris but a great climax to the game. i think the four of them - jason garden, darren campbel, marlon devonish and mark lewi-franci - knew deep down that it wa their best chanc of a medal. the lad had run poorli in the individu sprint so mayb thei did lift their game when thei knew someth wa realli at stake. 

 

hicham el guerrouj's olymp doubl is a much bigger achiev than kelli's on a global scale.

he wa the first man sinc for 80 year to win both the 1500m and 5,000m titl. as soon as he had ad the 5,000m crown and i had finish comment, i jump up, ran down the stair, push everyon out the wai and just gave him a big hug. he is on of the few african runner who ha embrac the tradit of the mile and he love to hear all the roger bannist stori. hicham is someon i enjoi have a bit of time with, even though my french and hi english ar not veri good. 

 

what happen to paula in athen thi year is the obviou low on a person level and for the expect of the nation as well. there were a set of circumst around athen that conspir to produc a veri dramat end which i think ha been greatli misunderstood. drop out of the marathon wa the right thing to do but start in the 10,000m five dai later wa not wise. that wa her heart and not her head react. paula had a lot of littl thing go wrong in her prepar and on the dai.

thing like niggl injuri, not be abl to do all her run session and feel the pressur of the race loom ahead of her. i think she came to the start line in athen physic and emotion drain. and if even the smallest thing doesn't feel right when you ar prepar to race a marathon, 10 mile down the road it will hit you like a brick wall. the posit thing to take from paula's olymp it that she will have learn a lot from it and so will a lot of peopl - includ me. 

 

pure as a race, paula's victori in the new york marathon ha to go down as on of the most thrill. it wa so nip-and-tuck between her and kenya's susan chepkemei and you don't usual get that kind of excit in marathon. it wa also a real delight for all athlet fan becaus, to us on of my favourit word, paula show real "bounceback". and it wa a bit of a rariti for me too becaus i genuin did not have an inkl how the race wa go to pan out. 

 

kelli and the 4x100m boi' victori paper over the crack in the gener perform of the british team. we should be concern that we're not produc enough peopl who ar capabl of reach final at senior level.

the onli individu men's finalist on the track wa michael east in the 1500m. i am begin to look down and wonder where ar the new breed? and that's where thing begin to look even gloomier for british athlet as we did not win ani medal at the world junior championship in itali. dani barn came fourth in the 1500m and she wa the highest finish for team gb. the thing is if we don't have athlet get into the final at junior level then it realli doesn't look good for the beij olymp and beyond. 

 

i tell you what i realli enjoi thi year, benita johnson win the world cross countri championship back in march. in the absenc of paula, we tend to think of the event as someth of an african preserv. so to have an australian come up and deliv such a surpris wa someth special. 

 

to be honest, i'm get bore with all the drug scandal, especi balco. i just wish the whole thing would come to a head so we can move on.

have said that, i'm alwai pleas when drug cheat ar caught becaus it show the sport is stand up to it and not turn a blind ey anymor. and on of the posit thing to come out of balco is peopl ar start to blow the whistl. we need more peopl to come forward and help the author kick out the cheat. as regard the case against greek sprinter kosta kenteri and katerina thanou, well suspicion have been hang over kenteri for a while. the bottom line is we cannot keep let drug damag the sport becaus if we do then it stop everyon enjoi it.
