radcliff tackl marathon task

paula radcliff face arguabl the biggest test of her career in the new york citi marathon on sundai.

back under the spotlight of public scrutini she will attempt to eras the doubl disappoint of the athen olymp, where she fail to finish the marathon and then the 10,000m. bbc sport examin the challeng face radcliff ahead of the big race. 

the abil to run a gruell 26.2 mile reli larg upon an athlet's belief that thei can do it. everi runner will hit the wall at some stage and see written on it, "ar you strong enough to finish?"

the question could hit radcliff hard after she wa unabl to complet her last two race in high-profil and emot circumst. sport psychologist hugh richard sai the 30-year-old must draw on her past achiev to conquer a potenti crisi of confid. "there is an old adag, 'get straight back on the hors that threw you,'" richard told bbc sport. "paula ha got all those great run in her histori as well as the two upset in athen. "she must not lose faith in what ha alreadi been proven is a veri effect strategi for distanc run. "if she were to chang her prepar and tactic that would be mad. "she want to start rebuild her confid through perform accomplish." 

for much of the watch media and public there can onli be two possibl outcom in new york - win or lose. if radcliff cross the line first she will have prove her critic wrong. but if she fail to triumph, she risk be label a ha-been and her profil will suffer. and for ani athlet that can have repercuss in term of sponsorship, appear fee as well as further self esteem issu.

"athlet need to try and stai focus on their intern control and ignor extern question," explain richard, who ha work with past olympian. "she must not get caught up in someon els's agenda." radcliff's best friend and fellow distanc runner liz yell reveal the 30-year-old is alreadi awar she will be expos herself to more public scrutini in new york. "she just thought, 'well, thei can't think ani wors of me now,'" yell told bbc sport. "she's just do what she want to do and not think about the consequ of it." 

radcliff describ her decis to enter the new york marathon as "impuls" but she is certain to have a tick-list of person goal. her aim could be as simpl as complet a race and make sure she is still enjoi run but richard sai she must avoid more emot target, such as redempt. "you can't chang histori," warn richard. "onli on person can win the marathon but lot of peopl can be success. "paula ha to figur out what sort of thing will she feel satisfi achiev by the end of the race." 

the cours from staten island to central park is renown as on of the toughest in the world. it is also not the kind of fast cours that tend to suit radcliff better, with the undul finish through the park test the leg' final reserv.

radcliff ha never race there befor and will enter the unknown just 77 dai after the athen marathon. "it's suggest after a major marathon you take a full month off and start build up again," said yell, herself a marathon runner. "but that is onli for long-term health and fit. "when you finish a marathon you ar still veri fit and can recov quickli. so physic it is possibl for paula." richard also point out condit in new york will be more conduc to a strong physic displai from radcliff. "the heat stress wa the primari factor that trip her up in athen," he said. "and that just isn't go to be there in new york, that's been taken out of the equat." 



radcliff conced she will probabl learn a lot from her bad experi in athen in time. and richard and yell agre she could turn the trauma to her advantag, start in new york. "how you respond to advers is what mark you out as elit or not," argu richard.

"on of the challeng of massiv set back is how you turn them into opportun." and yell sai: "i think thi will probabl make paula." "i think it will drive her on and she'll come out of it a better athlet."
