collin name uk athlet chief

uk athlet ha end it search for a new perform director by appoint psychologist dave collin.

collin, who work with the british team at the 2000 and 2004 olymp, take over from max jone. six candid were interview for the job, includ denis lewi' coach charl van commene and former british tripl jumper keith connor. "we've search long and hard to ensur we have found the right person," said uka chief execut david moorcroft. "we have thoroughli test the candid. i believ david will make a great leader and i have great faith in what he will achiev." collin said: "it's a great challeng. over the next few month i will spend time listen to those who alreadi make a signific contribut to athlet and other elit sport in the uk." collin, who ha work with javelin thrower steve backlei in the past, start hi career as a royal marin befor becom a pe teacher. he is current professor of physic educ and sport perform at edinburgh univers, where he help competitor across mani sport, includ rugbi, athlet, judo and footbal.

he ha specialis in help competitor fulfil their potenti through psycholog and ha work with the great britain women's curl team, who won gold at the 2002 winter olymp. mark lewi-franci sought collin' advic in athen when he wa look for inspir befor he ran the final leg of britain's surpris triumph in the 4x100m relai. collin ha plai rugbi at region level, wa captain of the great britain american footbal team, and compet at nation level in judo and karat. he arriv with british athlet at a crossroad. despit kelli holm' golden doubl and the success of the sprint relai squad, the gb team fail to live up to expect in athen. mani older competitor have retir or ar come to the end of their career, and britain fail to win a singl medal at the world junior championship in itali thi year. collin will not have dai-to-dai coach contact with the athlet, but will be expect to make chang to the system and coach set-up in order to secur medal at the beij olymp in 2008. the appoint of a new perform director wa on of the main recommend in sir andrew foster's review of the sport, which wa publish in mai. it wa commiss by uk sport and sport england, which want uk athlet to justifi fund of more than £40m from the govern follow the failur to hang on to the 2005 world championship, which ar now be held in helsinki. van commene drop out of the select process to take on the same role with the dutch olymp committe, while connor's applic wa reject after an arduou interview process. foster, howev, declar himself satisfi with how the appoint wa made. "the appoint of david collin, with hi strong mix of leadership skill and manageri experi, is testament to the profession and detail recruit process," he said.
