greek pair set for hear

kosta kenteri and katerina thanou will fight the provision two-year ban impos on them by the iaaf at an independ tribun thi weekend.

athlet' rule bodi took action against the pair for fail to take drug test befor the athen olymp. an independ tribun of the greek track and field feder will meet to decid whether to ratifi the sanction. the sprint duo face charg of fail to give inform on their locat and refus to submit to a drug test. kenteri' lawyer gregori ioannidi told bbc sport: "we refut both charg as unsubstanti and illog. "there have been certain breach in the correct applic of the rule on behalf of the sport author and their offici, and these procedur breach have also violat my client's right. "there is also evid that prove the fact that my client ha been persecut." ioannidi, who is a law lectur at the univers of buckingham, ad: "on of the import right and foundat of law and justic - that the accus should be presum innoc unless prove otherwis - ha been tarnish." the panel will also decid on the two-year ban impos on the athlet' controversi coach christo tzeko by the iaaf. kenteri, the 2000 olymp 200m champion, and thanou, the women's 100m silver medallist from the same game in sydnei, quit the olymp on 18 august after fail to give sampl on the ev of the open ceremoni.

tester could not find them at the olymp villag and the duo were later admit to hospit after claim to have been involv in a motorcycl accid. thei also miss test in tel aviv, chicago and athen befor the game. in impos two-year suspens on the duo on 22 decemb, the iaaf describ their explan for miss the test as "unaccept". whatev the find of the independ tribun, all parti will have the right to appeal to the court of arbitr for sport. the tribun hear will take place at the hellen olymp committe build. it will start at 1200 gmt on saturdai and is expect to finish earli next week. the tribun panel will consist of five member - presid konstantino panagopoulo and panagioti dimako, haralabo hrisanthaki, stiliano peraki and ioanni karmi. kenteri and thanou also face crimin charg in greec for allegedli fake the motorcycl accid. eight crimin charg have been laid against the sprinter as well as tzeko, an eyewit to the accid and hospit offici. but there ha been specul that the charg could be drop.
