jone file cont lawsuit

marion jone ha file a lawsuit for defam against balco boss victor cont follow hi alleg that he gave her perform-enhanc drug.

the sydnei olymp gold medallist sai cont damag her reput and she is seek $25m (£13m) in the suit. cont, whose compani is at the centr of a dope investig, made the claim in a us televis programm. he and three other were indict in februari by a feder grand juri for a varieti of alleg offenc. in an email to the associ press on wednesdai, cont said: "i stand by everyth i said". jone won three gold medal and two bronz in sydnei in 2000. her lawsuit, file in the us district court in san francisco, said the sprinter had pass a lie detector test and that she "ha never taken ban perform-enhanc drug". cont's statement, the suit ad, were "fals and malici". after the abc televis program earlier thi month, jone' lawyer richard nichol said: "marion ha steadfastli maintain her posit throughout: she ha never, ever us perform-enhanc drug. "victor cont is a man face a 42-count feder indict, while marion jone is on of america's most decor femal athlet. mr cont's statement have been wildli contradictori. "mr cont chose to make unsubstanti alleg on televis, while marion jone demand to take and then pass a lie detector examin.

"mr cont is simpli not credibl. we challeng him to submit to the same lie detector procedur that marion jone pass." the sport's rule bodi, the iaaf, is take a cautiou approach to cont's alleg but contact the us anti-dope agenc. commun director nick davi said the iaaf would seek to contact cont "for further inform". but davi stress it would be up to the american author to decid whether thei will take action against jone in light of cont's televis interview and the world govern bodi would monitor the situat close. "if it is felt there is case to answer, it would be for it nation govern bodi (usa track and field) to take the appropri disciplinari action," he ad. "the us anti-dope agenc ha prove itself to be veri dilig in it anti-dope war. "and i am sure, like ourselv, thei will be watch the televis programm with great interest." jone, who is under investig for steroid us by the us anti-dope agenc, ha continu deni ever take illeg substanc sinc be investig in the balco scandal, although she prais a zinc supplement cont market. jone, who did not win ani medal in athen in august, ha never fail a drug test. meanwhil, cont, who ha been charg along with three other men of distribut illeg steroid and monei launder, is due to face trial in march.
