what now for kelli holm?

last april, kelli holm spoke to the bbc sport websit about her loneli, her fight to stai fit and her decis not to contest both the 800m and 1500m at the olymp.

it just goe to show even the most meticul and measur athlet cannot predict what fate ha in store for them. four month later, holm storm to doubl olymp gold and ha sinc been made a dame, won the bbc sport person of the year and written a book whilst still find time to coach aspir athlet. with so much time spent in the spotlight, holm ha increasingli drop hint that her ambit on the track ha begun to wilt. and when ask about her plan for both the indoor and outdoor season ahead, the 34-year-old ha repeatedli chosen to tick the "don't know" box. holm ha now pull out of thi weekend's european indoor championship, where she wa select for both the 800m and 1500m, becaus of a hamstr injuri. but should we be surpris if the olymp champion over both those distanc decid she just doe not feel like race anymor? "well, it's a lot easier be the doubl olymp champion, be fete by everybodi, than train to be at the top in middl distanc run," point out former olympian and bbc pundit steve cram. "you have to have a real strong desir to carri on do it even if you're veri talent."

holm' drive and determin have alwai been unquestion - that is the reason she ha battl back from a string of injuri that threaten to see her finish her career empti-hand. but alarm bell start ring when the kent athlet begin question herself. "will i have as much commit, desir and energi to go through a major championship?" holm ask in the new year. "that is what i don't know." at 34, holm will also be awar that time is run out. us 400m and 200m legend michael johnson, a five-time olymp gold medallist, retir shortli after hi 34th birthdai as did britain's doubl olymp champion decathlet dalei thompson. the physic demand of the dai-to-dai grind will onli get harder for holm, who ha alreadi admit she "doesn't like the train anymor." whilst out on the circuit the allur of defeat a doubl olymp champion will spur her oppon on. holm will not want to needlessli suffer the indign of be beaten. unless she is certain she ha a strong chanc of win ani race, she will not step onto the track. but if the kent athlet find the form that fuell her ambit last summer, there ar more prize up for grab. the dai after complet her doubl in athen, the 34-year-old reveal she would still like to win her first indoor titl.

holm' wish could easili be met in madrid befor she goe on to prepar for the outdoor season where there ar still score to be settl, such as a first gold at the world championship in helsinki. there is just on small truth which could gnaw awai at holm' motiv - the realis that no matter how hard she train, noth she win now can surpass her achiev in athen. on the other hand, if those achiev cannot be match shouldn't thei be at least share and celebr? "you don't get the chanc veri often in your career to step onto the track as the doubl olymp champion," agre cram. "you want to be abl to take your bow in front of the fan becaus it's a fantast feel. "i think deep down kelli want to run. i think she will compet and run race on the circuit but whether or not she run in the major championship is much less certain."

athlet fan had everi reason to believ thei would see the new-look kelli holm tear up the track again. after her olymp glori she emphat deni she plan to retir. so, why is holm drag her heel about make a decis on where, when or whether to even bother compet again? "that's just kelli," explain cram. "she's alwai been like that. "she enjoi peopl try to guess what she is go to do next. she know everi time she make a pronounc now it's headlin new. "kelli ha to figur out for herself what it is she want and that will be base on athlet decis, whether she can be competit, if she is fit enough to put her neck on the line. "and if she decid not to run again, no-on is go to turn round and sai 'you're make the wrong decis.'"
