garden battl to narrow win

jason garden fought all the wai to the line to narrowli claim the men's 60m titl at the norwich union indoor trial and aaa championship.

the world 60m champion got off to a roll start and had to dig deep to dip ahead of mark findlai and darren chin, who both set person best. "it wa a close race," admit garden. "i stumbl out the block but my experi told through. "i still feel there's more life in me and i believ i can go faster." garden's perform in sheffield could have been affect by the new, which he heard befor hi semi-final, that hi european record had been broken frenchman ronald pognon, who will be a real threat at the european championship, set a new time of 6.45, on-hundreth of a second faster than garden's previou mark. favourit

deliv a power perform to take the women's 60m titl in 7.27 second. "you'll see me in madrid and i feel there is a lot more to come along," said the 22-year-old. katherin endacott battl hard to take second and dip under the european qualifi mark. defend champion joic maduaka had pull out of the final with a chest infect.

wa on record-break form as she storm to the women's 60m hurdl crown. the 25-year-old set a new british record for the second time in seven dai, clock 7.96 second to finish ahead of rival dian allahgreen. "i'm so happi," a tear claxton told bbc sport. "all the year i've been run and i'm get recognit." claxton's time wa also good enough to qualifi for the european championship.

the men's 800m went to form in sheffield as

domin the race from start to finish. the northern ireland athlet went off at a startl pace but had to hold off the challeng of welshman jimmi watkin over the final 200m to win in on minut, 47.96 second. both mcilori and watkin, who set a life-time best of 1:48.32, had alreadi book their place in madrid and were again well within the qualifi time. "i had to go out and go through all the gear befor the european and i won't run again until then," said mcilroi.

could not reach the european mark in the women's race as she cross the line to win in 2:04.45. olymp bronz heptathlon medallist

round off a us weekend with two more person best in sheffield. the 28-year-old reach 1.80m in the high jump and clock 8.47sec in the heat of the 60m hurdl. "i've surpris myself," said sotherton. "i'm start to thrive on the pressur but if i don't perform then it's not the end of the world." pole vaulter

made a win return to major competit after a drug ban. the trafford athlet, who ha serv a two-year ban after test posit for anabol steroid, clinch the titl with a championship record 4.25m.

also set a new championship mark in the men's tripl jump titl in sheffield. the 26-year-old, who ha been train in australia over the winter, land 17.30m with hi final effort - the longest leap in the world thi year. "i didn't have a clue," said idowu. "i've not jump indoor befor and i just want the qualifi mark. "but thi isn't a bad start and hopefulli i'll come back from madrid with a gold medal." nathan dougla continu hi steadi progress thi season as he set a life-time best of 16.76m in second while jonathan moor took third.

and

resum their rivalri in the long jump competit, both achiev the european standard. commonwealth champion morgan reach a person best of 7.96m on hi veri first jump and then promptli retir with a bruis heel. olympian tomlinson tri to plai catch up with hi six jump but had to settl for a season's best jump of 7.91m. "i wa advis not to jump by my doctor and so i'm pleas to come here and get the qualifi mark," said tomlinson.

, now base at loughborough, sprint past front runner catherin murphi in the final 100m to steal the women's 400m titl. the 21-year-old ran a person best of 53.45 second to win her first indoor titl. wall's time wa just short of the qualifi mark - someth murphi alreadi ha. ireland's

took the men's titl in 46.46 ahead of promis channel island decathlet dale garland. sudanes 18-year-old rabah yusuf, who is seek british citizenship, show hi raw talent as he burst through in third.

clear the requir 1.90m to qualifi for the european championship and claim the aaa titl in the women's high jump. in the men's 3,000m,

power to a new person best of seven minut, 56.86 second to defend hi aaa titl in style. it wa the first time in 11 year the eight-minut barrier ha been broken at the championship and wa just within the european mark.

took the women's 1500m aaa titl in the absenc of kelli holm. her time of 4:19.11 wa not good enough to qualifi for madrid but oven had alreadi opt out of the championship. the men's race wa won by

, who had to fight off a close pack to claim the titl in 3:45.87.
