european medal chanc improv

what have the european indoor trial told us? well, i think we could be head to the european championship with half a dozen medal prospect.

it wa good to see athlet begin to make step forward, to see a few new face and there were lot of person best kick around.

the best perform on the track for me wa sarah claxton's win in the 60m hurdl. run sub-eight second twice in a week put her right up there and if she repeat that in madrid she will be close to pick up a medal. but what wa great about sundai's perform wa that she wa under pressur to produc the good when it count. dian allahgreen ha been our best hurdler for some time now and i think she wa surpris to be beaten by sarah. and know that she got the better of dian in a head-to-head race will give sarah confid. in the men's race on saturdai, allan scott wa right in there and there is definit more to come from him. in fact, the men's 60m hurdl is so strong, i think the selector will pick three hurdler to go to madrid.

phillip idowu lit up the field event, not onli with hi hair, but also with hi leap of 17.30m, which put him at the top of the world rank. i had a chat with him befor the competit and he wa realli look forward to get out there. he feel he is in great shape and ha some big jump insid him - but then phillip alwai ha. a lot of the athlet said the runwai wa not veri help, so for phillip to jump like that is a good perform. he is such a huge talent but just need some consist - and if he doe that then the big jump will get even further. across the board i thought kelli sotherton had a great weekend and continu to show she is develop. she pick up three person best in the long jump, high jump and 60m hurdl and you can't ask for more than that. kelli will be up against carolina kluft in the pentathlon at the european championship but she ha everi chanc of a medal on the basi of what we've seen so far.

she ha a complic train regim where differ peopl help her with differ disciplin but it seem to be work realli well. it wasn't all good new in sheffield. i thought both the 60m race were disappoint in differ wai. jason garden mai have won but he wasn't at hi best. i chat to him afterward and he know it wa an off-dai for him. he's there to be shot at and the other lad nearli got a big scalp out there. in the women's race, jeanett kwayk wa hope to run against defend champion joic maduaka. the pair ar enjoi a bit of rivalri but joic had to pull out with a chest infect. if she had made the final i think jeanett would have gone a bit quicker.

janin whitlock compet well in the pole vault on her return follow a two-year drug ban. but the most disappoint thing in the wider view is that she is our best pole vaulter by a long wai and that shouldn't be the case. the event ha move on immens sinc janin ha been awai and if there wa more domest competit i think that would help her. a coupl of other interest topic to look out for ar the citizenship issu surround mark findlai and rabah yusuf. findlai is a london who ha chosen to repres trinidad and tobago but ha never run for them so he could still compet for great britain. yusuf, who came third in the 400m, is from the sudan but is try to gain british citizenship. he came to britain as a high jumper but damag hi toe, start do more run and found hi talent. so we shall have to see what happen to both of them.
