johnson edg out rival sotherton

jade johnson edg out rival kelli sotherton with her last effort to claim the aaa long jump titl at the norwich union european indoor trial.

olymp heptathlon bronz medallist, sotherton, led the event with her first leap of 6.43m - a person best. but johnson, who ha not compet indoor for five year, leapt to a life-time best of 6.50m in her last jump, after four foul. both johnson and sotherton pass the european championship qualifi mark. although sotherton's main aim in madrid next month will be the pentathlon where she will take on olymp heptathlon champion carolina kluft. ireland's

deliv a shock in the men's 200m as he storm to hi first major titl in 21.01 second. british favourit chri lambert had to settl for second place while defend champion ireland's paul brizzel took third. there wa some consol for lambert as he set a person best of 20.94 in the first round - good enough to qualifi for europ.

two-time aaa champion allyn condon and ian macki had no such luck as thei were disqualifi in the heat. there wa plenti of hot action in the men's 60m hurdl where scotland's

wa vy for top spot with olympian andi turner. scott, 22, smash hi person best on the wai to the final, where he broke it again to win the aaa titl in 7.58 second. turner finish second in 7.82 after previous set a person best on the 7.83 in the semi-final, while damien greav did not finish the final. the trio of athlet have reach the european qualifi mark thi season though on of them is set to miss out on a call-up to the british squad.

comfort defend her 3,000m titl, clock eight minut, 49.87 second to easili surpass the european qualifi mark. the european cross countri bronz medallist is rank number on in europ thi season and will go to madrid with high hope. helen clithero wa agonisingli close to the 9:05.00 qualifi mark as she claim the runner-up spot in a person best of 9:05.73. in the men's 800m heat,

qualifi fastest in the 800m heat to lai down a challeng to in-form

. the welsh runner attack the last 200m to come through ahead of jame thie in on minut, 49.87 second. mcilroi, who is third in the european rank, eas across the finish in 1:50.87 to set up a showdown in sundai's final in sheffield. both watkin and mcilroi have alreadi achiev the european qualifi mark. scotland's susan deacon stole

's thunder in the final of the women's 200m. fraser becam the fastest british woman over the distanc thi season when she qualifi for the final in 23.68 second - though that time is outsid the european standard. but deacon claim her first aaa titl over the distanc, edg fraser into second in 23.67. in the women's shot put veteran

claim her fourth aaa titl with a throw of 15.27m. but that mark wa not good enough for the 39-year-old to book her place at next month's european indoor championship in madrid. sotherton finish fifth after produc two throw of 13.77m. in the absenc of injur british number on carl myerscough,

claim the men's shot put titl with a throw of 17.64m, which wa below the qualifi mark.

sale's robert mitchel climb to a season's best of 2.20m - just 3cm short of the european standard - to claim the british indoor high jump titl.

could onli clear 2.16m to finish in fourth but the 27-year-old's disappoint will be temper as he had alreadi achiev the qualifi mark at a meet in slovenia on tuesdai. there wa bad luck for british number on

in the pole vault as he fail to clear the bar after decid to come in at 5.45m. the aaa indoor titl went instead to ashlei swain, who climb to a season's best of 5.25m and ireland's taniesha scanlon set a new nation record of 13.28m in the women's tripl jump.
