britain boost by holm doubl

athlet fan endur a year of mix emot in 2004 as stun victori went hand-in-hand with disappoint defeat and more drug scandal.

kelli holm final fulfil her potenti by storm to doubl gold on the track at the olymp game. holm help eras the gloom hang over team gb after their biggest medal hope, paula radcliff, drop out of the marathon and then the 10,000m. britain's men's 4x100m relai team also did their bit by take a shock gold. holm had start the year in disappoint style, fall over in the final of 1500m at the world indoor championship where she wa favourit. her olymp build-up wa cloud by self doubt but that prove unfound as she overhaul rival maria mutola to win the 800m - her first global titl. just five dai later, the 34-year-old made it doubl gold in the 1500m. it wa the first time in 84 year a briton ha achiev the olymp middl-distanc doubl. while holm left athen as the star of team gb, it wa radcliff who carri expect befor the august game.

the 30-year-old marathon world record holder went into the athen event as favourit but an exhaust radcliff drop out after 23 mile in tear. her decis to enter the 10,000m five dai later also backfir as she again pull out with eight lap remain.

but radcliff help put her olymp trauma behind her with a thrill win in novemb's new york marathon. the 4x100m team grab some last-gasp glori for the british men's olymp squad after a poor start to the game.

it seem as though athen would be the first game where the men would fail to win a medal with michael east the onli individu track finalist in the 1500m. but darren campel, jason garden, marlon devonish and mark lewi-franci made amend in the sprint relai. the quartet held off favourit the usa to win britain's first relai medal sinc 1912 in 38.07 second. garden ad the olymp relai crown to hi world indoor titl over 60m and, just like holm, final live up to hi promis in 2004. kelli sotherton complet team gb's athlet medal haul in athen with a surpris bronz in the heptathlon. the 28-year-old won her first championship medal sinc becom a full-time athlet in 2003.

but it wa a differ stori for britain's defend champion denis lewi, who withdrew on dai two of the competit after some poor result. lewi, who wa troubl by injuri, ha rule out retir while sotherton is tip to build on her success. the athen olymp prove to be a landmark occas for steve backlei, who retir from competit after finish fourth in the javelin. the battl 35-year-old leav the sport with a vast medal haul includ two silver and on olymp bronz.

and backlei's departur wa balanc by the return of injuri-hit decathlet dean macei, who came fourth in athen.

the continu improv of sprinter abi oyepitan and long jumper chri tomlinson also boost team gb. sadli, the 2004 olymp did not escap the problem of drug misus. on the ev of the game, greek sprinter kosta kenteri and katerina thanou miss a drug test and claim to have been involv in a road crash.

kenteri, the 200m champion in 2000, and thanou have sinc been charg by the greek author and await trial. at the game, adrian annu (hammer), robert fazela (discu) and irina korzhanenko (shot) were all strip of their titl becaus of dope issu. hungarian compatriot annu and fazela both refus to give urin sampl while russian korzhanenko test posit for the steroid stanozolol.

the fallout from the thg scandal, which rock the sport in 2003, continu to impact in olymp year. britain's 4x100m team took gold without the servic of dwain chamber, who wa hand a two-year ban in februari after test posit for steroid thg.

american kelli white wa suspend and strip of her world 100m and 200m titl after fail a drug test. and world 400m champion jerom young land a life ban from us chief after a second dope offenc. russian pole vaulter yelena isinbayeva provid some light relief by smash the world record seven time on her wai to the world indoor and olymp titl. her rivalri with compatriot svetlana feofanova liven up the field event. morocco's hicham el guerrouj also delight fan by race to a histor olymp doubl in the 1500m and 5,000m.

and though there wa no paula radcliff in the london marathon, there wa plenti of drama as kenyan evan rutto and margaret okayo took the titl. rutto held on to win despit slip on some cobbleston and tumbl into a barrier. okayo also had to battl back after mistim her tactic but clinch victori on her debut.
