gb select holm for doubl bid

kelli holm ha been chosen for both the 800m and 1500m at next month's european indoor championship - despit not yet confirm her avail.

the doubl-olymp champion is still undecid about whether to compet in her first european indoor in madrid. but uk athlet chief max jone believ it is like holm will race. he said: "it's worth a punt, isn't it? she's gone back to train. if she's confid she will pick on (distanc). the programm doe not permit both." if holm doe take her place in the gb side, she ha alreadi indic that 1500m will be her favour distanc. under championship rule, she doe not have to decid until 24 hour befor the event begin in madrid on 4 march. jone ad: "she wa pleas with her run in birmingham (at last weekend's grand prix). "i am inclin to think she will (compet). it could depend on how train goe and she will have to be close to top form." and he admit holm' presenc would be a great boost to the rest of the norwich union gb team. "she is a veri good team member and is veri good to have there," he ad. meanwhil, there is no surpris in the rest of the great britain team announc on tuesdai.

defend 60m champion jason garden is includ and will be chase hi third success gold medal. he will be join in the event by mark lewi-franci - runner-up behind him three year ago in vienna - and new boi darren chin. kelli sotherton ha been invit by championship organis to compet against carolina kluft in the pentathlon. sotherton finish third in the olymp heptathlon in athen, where the swede took gold. there ar 16 newcom at thi level of competit in gb's 46-strong team. the championship will be the last to be attend by jone befor he retir to be succeed by dave collin. jone said: "the olymp game is the overwhelm target for uka and therefor it is benefici to start the next four-year cycl with a not-so-pressuris major game. "the european indoor championship alwai provid a chanc for the young and inexperienc to make a name for themselv and the current indoor season ha produc some excit new talent. "madrid is the first small step on a long journei to beij and the 2008 olymp but for some of the emerg athlet, thi will be a veri import step."

60m: d chin (belgrav harrier), j garden (wessex and bath), m lewi-franci (birchfield harrier).

t abeyi (woodford green with essex ladi), c lambert (belgrav harrier).

d garland (channel island ac).

j mcilroi (windsor, slough, eton and hounslow ac), jimmi watkin (cardiff aac).

ed jackson (aldershot, farnham and district), n speaight (belgrav harrier), j thie (cardiff aac).

a baddelei (harrow ac), m farah (windsor, slough, eton and hounslow ac), j mayock (barnslei ac).

d greav (newham and essex beagl), a scott (shaftesburi barnet harrier), a turner (nott ac).

b challeng (belgrav harrier). pole vault: n buckfield (crawlei ac).

n morgan (birchfield harrier), c tomlinson (newham and essex beagl).

l achik (shaftesburi barnet harrier), n dougla (oxford citi ac), p idowu (belgrav harrier).

d cossin (birchfield harrier), r davenport (gloucest ac), d garland (channel island ac), r preddi (gloucest ac), g warburton (cardiff aac).

k endacott (citi of plymouth ac), j kwaky (woodford green with essex ladi), j maduaka (woodford green with essex ladi).

k wall (basildon ac).

k holm (eal, southal and middlesex ac).

h clithero (preston harrier), k holm (eal, southal and middlesex ac).

j pavei (exet harrier).

d allahgreen (trafford ac), s claxton (belgrav harrier).

j crane (sale harrier manchest), s jone (trafford ac).

j whitlock (trafford ac).

j johnson (hern hill harrier).

k sotherton (birchfield harrier).

d fraser (croydon harrier), l mcconnel (shaftesburi barnet harrier), c murphi (woodford green with essex ladi), m purkiss (southampton ac).
