holm back on form in birmingham

doubl olymp champion kelli holm wa back to her best as she comfort won the 1,000m at the norwich union birmingham indoor grand prix.

the 34-year-old, run onli her second competit race of the season, shook off the rust to win in two minut, 35.39 second. but she is still undecid about compet in the european championship in madrid from 4-6 march. "i'll probabl be enter and make my mind up at the last minut," she said. "my train hasn't gone as well as expect but i've got two week to decid. "i need to take my time and make sure i feel good about what i'm do. "i felt veri good here but with the crowd behind you, you feel like you can do anyth." american

wa the eventu winner of the men's 60m race which almost end in farc. three athlet were disqualifi for fals start, includ britain's mark lewi-franci, who wa the first man guilti of come out of hi block too quickli. world 100m champion kim collin clinch second spot ahead of world 60m record holder and scott's train partner mauric green. jason garden's unbeaten run came to an end as he came fifth and he will need to improv if he is to defend hi european titl in madrid. "you can't win them all," said garden afterward. "and i wa veri disappoint as i know i'm capabl of do better." russian

wa back on record-break form in the pole vault at the nation indoor arena.

the olymp champion set a new world mark of 4.88m to break her own record - which she set just six dai ago - and beat russian rival svetlana feofanova. it wa isinbayeva's 11th world record - indoor or out - sinc juli 2003. "i'm so happi and i will do my best to break the 5m barrier soon," the 22-year-old told bbc sport. jamaica's

storm to a person best of 7.13 second to claim the women's 60m sprint. belgian kim gevaert, who will be on of the favourit for next month's european titl, took second while american muna lee wa third. there wa disappoint for british pair jeanett kwaky and joic maduaka who finish seventh and eighth respect.

jamaican

stretch her unbeaten record to 25 race as she effortlessli claim the 200m. the olymp champion set a new indoor person best of 22.38 second - the fastest time in the world thi season.

fought off fellow briton tim abeyi to take the men's 200m in a person best of 20.88.

continu her outstand start to the season, beat a strong intern field, which includ two-time olymp 100m hurdl bronz medallist melissa morrison, to claim the women's 60m hurdl. the 25-year-old briton clock 7.98 second while pre-european championship favourit russian irina shevchenko finish down in sixth. ethiopia's

fail in her bid to smash compatriot berhan ader's world 3,000m record but still won the event in emphat style. the olymp 5,000m champion wa insid record pace but drop off over the final third, finish in eight minut, 33.05 second - the fourth fastest time ever record for the event. britain's jo pavei brave decid to go with defar as she strode awai from the field and took second in a season's best 8:41.43. kenyan

also miss out on the indoor 1500m world record, which hicham el guerrouj ha held for the last eight year.

lagat settl for silver behind el guerrouj in athen and wa almost four second short of the moroccan's world best, clock 3:35.27 in birmingham. and

wa still struggl to find hi form after the death of hi fiance thi year. the olymp 10,000m champion had comfort led the men's two mile race after hi younger brother tariku had set the pace. but fellow ethiopian

appear omin on bekel's shoulder with two lap to go befor surg past him at the bell to win in 8:14.28. jamaican

made the most of a blister start to take the men's 400m titl in 45.91 second. world indoor champion, alleyn franciqu, fade badli and finish in fourth while american duo jerri harri and jame davi took second and third respect. swede

show her class in the long jump as she stole top spot from jade johnson with the veri last jump of the competit. the olymp heptathlon gold medallist reach 6.66m to better johnson's mark of 6.52m - her second person best insid a week. "i wa quit surpris becaus i didn't think i'd end up with second place," said johnson, who wore london's 2012 olymp bid slogan, "back the bid", on her short. "but i'm pleas and hopefulli i'll get a bit better for the european. i realli want to win a medal."

won the men's event with a season's best of 7.95m, take the scalp of world indoor champion savant stringfellow of the usa.
