record fail to lift lacklustr meet

yelena isinbayeva mai have produc anoth world pole vault record, but her achiev could not hide the fact it wa not the best meet we have ever seen in birmingham.

and hei, there ar not mani meet that go by without the russian break a world record.

appar, isinbayeva ha clear five metr in train and i would just love her to put us out of our miseri and have a go at it rather than extend the indoor record by on centimetr at a time. athlet to me is all about push the barrier and be the best you can, and i would like to see her have a go at 5m in competit. mind you, everi time she break the record she get $30,000 so she can afford to be deliber about it. world record asid, i thought it wa a veri encourag even's work for kelli holm. she look good and wa veri posit. agn samaria, who came second, is in veri good shape and is in the world's top three 800m runner thi season. ye, samaria let kelli get awai, but there wa no come back over the last 200m as kelli domin the race, so beat samaria is a bit of a benchmark for kelli. my gut feel is that kelli would like to run in the european indoor championship, but she just hasn't convinc herself she is fit enough to do so. on the other hand, i think jason garden is struggl to come near what is go to be requir to win the men's 60m in madrid. he start well in the final but still could not stai with the front-runner. jason ha a lot of experi indoor but for some reason he is struggl to maintain hi pace through to the finish.

it would have been nice to see what mark lewi-franci could have done in the final, if onli he hadn't got himself disqualifi. he wa blatantli plai the fals-start game to hi advantag, but it trip him up and made him look a bit silli. my view is you're meant to go when the gun goe and not befor. and if you try to unsettl your rival by emploi the fals-start tactic you have to rememb not to fals start yourself again. have said that, mark is look in much better shape. but i haven't seen anyth from mark or jason yet which suggest franc's ronald pognon - who ha run 6.45 second - will be under threat at the european. from a british point of view, sarah claxton's victori in the 60m hurdl wa the best thing to come out of the meet.

someth els that probabl went unnot wa melani purkiss win the women's nation 400m race in a new person best of 52.98 second. aaa champion kim wall came second in anoth lifetim best so we have a veri strong 4x400m squad go to the european championship. scotland's lee mcconnel is probabl go to run too, so we have a real prospect of a medal. from an intern perspect, i thought meseret defar wa disappoint in the 3,000m, but i don't think the pace-make wa great. canadian heather hennigar set a fast earli pace but could not maintain it and if jo pavei had been in last year's shape she would have given defar a real run for her monei. she had a go but just could not hang in there. we were also expect a bit more from bernard lagat in the men's 1500m. but he ha onli just come over from the usa, so he mai not be that sharp and i still think he is in great shape. as for kenenisa bekel, he wa well beaten by marko geneti. but we onli had half expect for bekel as he ha been struggl thi season. it wa veri hot in the nation indoor arena and i felt uncomfort in the commentari box. i think those condit affect the distanc runner and in fact defar complain to her coach after the race that she could not get her breath properli.
