run around the olymp

it wa back to offici duti last week in my role as an ambassador to london's 2012 olymp bid. but i still manag to do all my marathon train.

all the sport peopl on the capit's bid team think i'm mad to be take part in the london marathon. the bid chairman, lord coe, admit he would never dream of run a marathon, even though he wa an olymp middl-distanc runner.

kelli holm, former hurdler alan pasco and former sprinter franki frederick - who is now an ioc member - all want to know why anyon would want to run that far. you'd have thought all these athlet, who have been run for most of their live, wouldn't think it would be that bad. but the onli person who wa posit about my intent wa tanni grei thompson, who ha won the london marathon wheelchair race six time. even though it wa a veri busi week entertain the intern olymp committe's (ioc) evalu commiss, i actual found my run schedul easier to follow. when i'm at home, i get distract by all sort of thing but for the five dai i wa in london, i wa in a pressuris situat, but i found it easi to relax by run.

on wednesdai, the present to the ioc team did not finish until the earli even, so i just manag to squeez in a 45-minut run. we had an earli start on thursdai becaus we had to visit all the olymp site around london, that wa pretti shatter, but when we got back to the hotel, i got back on the treadmil. on fridai even i went along to the special dinner at buckingham palac which wa a nice occas. i never feel guilti about eat, especi when i'm exercis. and becaus it wa a rest dai i didn't have to feel bad about miss my train either. anywai, i manag to do anoth quick run on saturdai ahead of the final ioc present, befor head home for my daughter's birthdai.

when i wa in london i did all of my run on the treadmil, which isn't the same as exercis outdoor. on of the ioc's technic staff from australia ran alongsid me on dai. we talk about the sydnei olymp and that made the time go past more quickli. i do find it quit comfort run in the gym becaus there is more cushion. but when you're gear up to run on the road you need your bodi to get us to that jar feel when your feet hit the pavement. it wa good to get out on the road for my long run on sundai. after the week i'd had i wa a bit concern i wouldn't be abl to complet it. but i cope with it veri well and, even though it wa bitterli cold, i put in 15-and-a-half mile - onli anoth 11 to go then.

- thi year steve will donat all the proce from hi london marathon effort to victim of the tsunami.steve will be write a regular column on the up and down of hi marathon train for the bbc sport websit.he will be rais monei through the steve redgrav trust which support the associ of children's hospic, the children with leukaemia chariti, and the trust's own project which aim to provid inner-citi school with row equip.
