garden win doubl in glasgow

britain's jason garden enjoi a doubl 60m success in glasgow in hi first competit out sinc he won 100m relai gold at the athen olymp.

garden cruis home ahead of scot nick smith to win the invit race at the norwich union intern. he then recov from a poor start in the second race to beat swede daniel persson and itali's luca verdecchia. hi time of 6.61 and 6.62 second were well short of american mauric green's 60m world record of 6.39sec from 1998. "it's a veri hard record to break, but i believ i've train veri well," said the world indoor champion, who hope to get closer to the mark thi season. "it wa import to come out and make sure i got maximum point. my last race wa the olymp final and there wa a lot of expect. "thi wa just what i need to sharpen up and get some race fit. i'm veri excit about the next coupl of month."

doubl olymp champion

mark her first appear on home soil sinc win 1500m and 800m gold in athen with a victori. there wa a third success for britain when

edg out russia's olga fedorova and sweden's jenni kallur to win the women's 60m race in 7.23sec. maduaka wa unabl to repeat the feat in the 200m, finish down in fourth as

took the win for russia. and the 31-year-old also miss out on a podium place in the 4x200m relai as the british quartet came in fourth, with russia set a new world indoor record. there wa a setback for jade johnson as she suffer a recurr of her back injuri in the long jump. russia won the meet with a final total of 63 point, with britain second on 48 and franc on point behind in third.

led the wai for russia by produc a major shock in the high jump as he beat olymp champion stefan holm into second place to end the swede's 22-event unbeaten record.

won the tripl jump with a leap of 16.87m, with britain's tosin ok fourth in 15.80m.

won the men's pole vault competit with a clearanc of 5.65m, with britain's nick buckfield 51cm adrift of hi person best in third. and

won the women's 800m, with britain's jenni meadow third. there wa yet anoth russian victori in the women's 400m as

finish well clear of britain's catherin murphi. chri lambert had to settl for fourth after fade in the close stage of the men's 200m race as sweden's

held off lesli djhone of franc. franc's

won the men's 400m, with brett rund fourth for britain.

took victori for sweden in the women's 60m hurdl ahead of russia's irina shevchenko and britain's sarah claxton, who set a new person best. itali grab their first victori in the men's 1500m as

kick over the last 200 metr to hold off britain's jame thie and franc's alexi abraham. a botch changeov in the 4x200m relai cost britain's men the chanc to add further point as franc claim victori.
