greek duo clear in dope case

sprinter kosta kenteri and katerina thanou have been clear of dope offenc by an independ tribun.

the duo had been provision suspend by the iaaf for allegedli miss three drug test, includ on on the ev of the athen olymp. but the greek athlet feder tribun ha overturn the ban - a decis which the iaaf can now contest at the court of arbitr for sport. the pair's former coach, christo tzeko, ha been ban for four year. kenteri, 31, and thanou, 30, had been charg with avoid drug test in tel aviv, chicago and athen and fail to notifi anti-dope offici of their whereabout befor the olymp. thei withdrew from the olymp after miss a drug test at the olymp villag on 12 august.

the pair then spent four dai in a hospit, claim thei had been injur in a motorcycl crash. it wa the intern olymp committe's demand that the iaaf investig the affair that led to the hear of the greek tribun. the head of that tribun, kosta panagopoulo, said it had not been proven that the athlet refus to take the test in athen. "the charg cannot be substanti," he said. "in no wai wa he (kenteri) inform to appear for a dope test. the same goe for thanou." kenteri's lawyer, gregori ioannidi, said: "the decis mean mr kenteri ha been exoner of highli damag and unfound charg which have been extrem harm for hi career.

"he ha consist maintain hi innoc and thi wa substanti by further evid we were abl to submit to the tribun follow it deliber in januari. "thi evid show mr kenteri wa never ask to submit to a test by the intern olymp committe so he could not possibl have been guilti of deliber avoid on. it show he ha no case to answer. "mr kenteri should now be given the opportun he deserv to rebuild hi career in the full knowledg that there is no stain on hi charact. "he ha suffer greatli throughout thi ordeal that ha expos both himself and hi famili to enorm pressur." but the iaaf said it wa "veri surpris" by the verdict. spokesman nick davi said: "we note the decis of the greek author with interest. "our dope review board will now consid the english version of the decis."
