costin aim for comeback in 2006

jami costin should be paralys.

he sai so himself in a matter-of-fact wai as he recal the car accid which occur nine dai befor he wa schedul to step out into the olymp stadium in athen for the 50k walk. there is an iron chuckl as he talk of hi immedi thought after a lorri, drive on the wrong side of the road, had plough into hi rental car. "i wa in a lot of pain and i guess that on of my toe wa broken," sai the waterford man. "but i wa think mayb with a cortison inject you never know. "in my back, it felt as though all the muscl had been rip off my pelvi but i wa think mayb we could do someth with laser therapi and ultra sound and hopefulli i'd be abl to race." it took over 10 hour befor jami knew with certainti that he would not be compet in hi second olymp. "my back had been broken in two place and with on of my vertebra, the bottom part had explod so i'm fierc lucki not be paralys. "i'd fractur my big toe as well which wa on the brake." jami didn't final arriv at hospit in athen until some nine and a half hour after the accid.

"for the first nine hour, i had no pain killer which wa ridicul in 35 degre heat. "but onc i got the scan and saw them it wa a case of move on and think:'ok, i've got a differ set of circumst now'." within three dai he wa arriv back in ireland by air ambul. doctor in athen had want to oper on jami's back immedi but he insist on delai ani surgeri until he arriv back home - someth he is now veri reliev about. "the greek doctor were go to put three or four inch titanium rod either side of my spinal cord up through my vertebra. "that would have fuse all my lower back and i would never have been abl to race again. thei were realli put a lot of pressur on me to agre to the surgeri. "but when i got to the mater in dublin thei said it wa possibl for it to heal total natur which is give me the chanc to get back into competit which is veri import to me. the peopl at the mater have been absolut fantast." jami had to wear a bodi cast for three and a half month after the accid and spent most of that time flat on hi back.

he then progress to crutch for six week until he wa final abl to walk unaid on 10 januari. "walk without the crutch seem like someth final realli measur in term of my recoveri." physio session with johnston mcevoi in limerick have been a vital part of hi recoveri. "johnston us an advanc type of acupunctur and it's veri effect. "needl get put right close up to my spine. a two and a half inch needl went in yesterdai and i'm fairli incapacit todai as a result." jami ha also travel to receiv treatment at the polish train centr in spala where he ha train with tripl olymp champion robert korzeniowski over the past five year. "i wa there for over a fortnight earlier thi month and underw a fair extrem treatment call cryotherapi. "basic, there's a small room which is cool by liquid nitrogen to minu 160 degre centigrad and it promot deep heal."

jami head to poland again on sundai where he will be have daili cryotherapi in addit to twice-daili physio session and pool-work. all these session ar small step on the wai to what jami hope will be a return to race in 2006. "it's all about try to get mobil in my back. ly down for three and a half month didn't realli help with the strength. "there's a lot of work involv in my recoveri. i'm do about six hour a dai between physio and pool work. "i'm also go to the gym to lift veri light weight to try and build up my muscl. i'm fairli full on with everyth i do. "i'd hope to be train regularli by march. but train is just part of the process of get back. "at the moment, everi time i go and do a big bit of movement, my whole pelvic area all down my lower back just tighten up. "it's a case of wait and see how it react. hopefulli, after four or five month my back won't tighten up as much."
