man utd stroll to cup win

wayn roonei made a win return to everton as manchest unit cruis into the fa cup quarter-final.

roonei receiv a hostil recept, but goal in each half from quinton fortun and cristiano ronaldo silenc the jeer at goodison park. fortun head home after 23 minut befor ronaldo score when nigel martyn parri paul schole' free-kick. marcu bent miss everton's best chanc when roi carrol, who wa later struck by a missil, save at hi feet.

roonei's return wa alwai go to be a potenti flashpoint, and he wa involv in an angri exchang with a spectat even befor kick-off. and roonei's everi touch wa met with a deafen choru of jeer from the crowd that onc idolis the 19-year-old. everton start brightli and fortun need to be alert to scrambl awai a header from bent near the goal-line. but that wa the cue for unit to take complet control with a suprem pass displai on a goodison park pitch that wa cut up. fortun gave unit the lead after 23 minut, rise to meet ronaldo's cross from eight yard after the portugues youngster had been allow too much time and space by the hapless gari naysmith. unit domin without creat too mani clear-cut chanc, and thei almost paid the price for not make the most of their domin two minut befor half-time. mikel arteta plai a superb ball into the area but bent, plai onsid by gabriel heintz, hesit and carrol plung at hi fee to save. unit almost doubl their lead after 48 minut when ronaldo's low drive from 25 yard took a deflect off toni hibbert, but martyn dive to save brilliantli. and martyn came to everton's rescu three minut later when roonei's big moment almost arriv as he race clean through, but onc again the veteran keeper wa in outstand form. but there wa noth martyn could do when unit doubl their lead after 57 minut as thei doubl their advantag. schole' free-kick took a deflect, and martyn could onli parri the ball out for ronaldo, who react first to score easili. everton's problem worsen when jame mcfadden limp off with an injuri. and there mai be further troubl ahead for everton after goalkeep carrol requir treatment after he wa struck on the head by a missil thrown from behind the goal. roonei's desper search for a goal on hi return to everton wa halt again by martyn in injuri-time when he outpac stubb, but onc again martyn deni the england striker.

- manchest unit coach sir alex ferguson: "it wa a fantast perform by us. in fair i think everton have miss a coupl of player and got some young player out. "the boi ronaldo is a fantast player. he's persist and never give in. "i don't know how mani foul he had he get up and want the ball again, he's truli a fabul player." everton: martyn, hibbert, yobo, stubb, naysmith, osman, carslei, arteta, kilban, mcfadden, bent. sub: wright, piston, weir, plessi, vaughan. manchest unit: carrol, gari nevil, brown, ferdinand, heinz, ronaldo, phil nevil, kean, schole, fortun, roonei. sub: howard, gigg, smith, miller, spector. refere: r style (hampshir)
