moy u-turn on beatti dismiss

everton manag david moy will disciplin striker jame beatti after all for hi headbutt on chelsea defend william galla.

the scot initi defend beatti, whose dismiss put everton on the back foot in a game thei ultim lost 1-0, sai galla overreact. but he ha had a rethink after look over the video evid again. he said: "i believ that i should set the record straight by conced that the dismiss wa right and correct." moy ad: "my comment on saturdai came immedi after the final whistl and at a point when i had onli had the opportun to see on, veri quick re-run of the incid."

the club websit also report that beatti, who seem unrepent after saturdai's match, insist galla "would have stai down a lot longer" if he had headbut him, ha now apologis. moy continu: "although the incid wa total out of charact - jame ha never even been suspend befor in hi career - hi action were unaccept and had a detriment effect on hi team-mate. "jame did issu a formal apolog to myself, hi team-mate and to the everton support immedi after the game and that wa the right thing to have done. he will now be subject to the normal club disciplin. "he is a competit player but a fair player and i know how upset he is by what ha happen. howev, i must sai that i do still believ the chelsea player in question did go down too easili." speak immedi after the game, moy said: "i don't think it wa a send-off, i have been a centr-half in my time and i would have been asham to have gone down as easili as that.

"not in a million year would john terri have gone down in the same wai. i have never heard of anybodi but somebodi from behind while you ar run after them. "what ha happen to big, strong centr-halv? i thought it wa a push initi and i still don't think it wa a send-off." an angri beatti initi said: "he (galla) would have stai down a lot longer if i had headbut him. "i can tell you it wasn't an intent headbutt. we were chase a ball into the corner and william galla wa look over hi shoulder and block me off. "he wa stop as we were run and i said to myself 'if you're go to stai in my wai i'll go straight over you'. our head bare touch and it wasn't an intent headbutt."
