chelsea clinch cup in extra-time

(after extra-time - score at 90 min 1-1)

john arn riis vollei liverpool ahead after 45 second but steven gerrard score a 79th-minut own goal. blue boss jose mourinho wa sent off for taunt liverpool fan after the goal and he watch on televis as hi side went on to win the game. drogba and kezman score from close rang befor antonio nunez's header made for a tens final. it wa an amaz climax which gave mourinho hi first silverwar as chelsea manag. yet it wa controversi too, after mourinho's send off, appar for put hi finger to hi lip to hush the liverpool fan. there wa no hush them after the extraordinari open in which the red took a stun lead insid the first minut.

riis could not have connect ani better with morient' cross as he smash a left-foot vollei past petr cech. the goal, the quickest-ever in a leagu cup final, stun a blue side whose previous rock-solid confid had been shaken by consecut loss to newcastl and barcelona in the previou week. the blue' attack chanc were limit, and jerzi dudek wa equal to frank lampard's powerfulli-struck drive and drogba's low shot. despit their frustrat, chelsea began to domin midfield without serious threaten to break liverpool's well-organis defenc.

joe cole had a shot block and a promis damien duff break wa halt by a good tackl from djimi traor, but the red reach half-time without ani major scare. the blue began the second half with more urgenc and peg liverpool back. nevertheless, liverpool were live danger and thei need a fantast doubl save from dudek on 54 minut, first at full stretch from gudjohnsen's header, then to smother william galla' follow-up. and despit chelsea's possess, it wa liverpool who fashion the next clear opportun as lui garcia fed dietmar hamann whose shot forc a superb save from cech. and the blue' increasingli adventur approach saw liverpool earn anoth chanc on the break on 75 minut as paulo ferreira deni gerrard with a last-ditch tackl. but gerrard wa on the scoresheet minut later - in the most unfortun fashion - as he inadvert deflect ferrerira's free-kick past hi own keeper and in off the post to bring chelsea level. that prompt mourinho's reaction which saw him sent off, but chelsea still press and duff had a chanc to win the game with seven minut remain. dudek save brave at the irishman's feet, while milan baro shot wildli at the other end to ensur extra time. drogba almost head chelsea in front two minut into extra-time but the striker saw the ball rebound off the post. but second after the half-time interv, drogba made no mistak, pick the ball up from glen johnson's long throw insid the six-yard box and sidefoot home. and kezman appear to have made the game safe as he net from close rang after gudjohnsen's cross in the 110th minut. there wa still drama as nunez beat cech to a high ball with six minut remain to head hi side level, but despit liverpool's desper attack, chelsea clung on to win.

dudek, finnan, carragh, hyypia, traor (biscan 67), lui garcia, gerrard, hamann, riis, kewel (nunez 56), morient (baro 74).

sub not us: pellegrino, carson.

hyypia, traor, hamann, carragh.

riis 1, nunez 113.

cech, paulo ferreira, ricardo carvalho, terri, galla (kezman 74), jarosik (gudjohnsen 45), lampard, makelel, cole (johnson 81), drogba, duff.

sub not us: pidgelei, tiago.

lampard, kezman, drogba, duff.

gerrard 79 og, drogba 107, kezman 112.

78,000

s bennett (kent).
