middlesbrough 2-2 charlton

a late header by teenag danni graham earn middlesbrough a battl draw with charlton at the riversid.

matt holland had put the visitor ahead in the 14th minut after hi shot took a deflect off franck queudru. but middlesbrough pepper the charlton goal after the break and chri riggott stroke home the equalis. shaun bartlett's strike put charlton back in front but that lead last just six minut befor graham rush onto queudru's pass to head home. the match burst to life from the whistl and charlton defend hermann hreidarsson had sight of an open goal after just six minut. hreidarsson receiv danni murphi's free-kick from the right but he crash hi free header wide of the far post. the iceland intern look such a danger the boro bench could be heard issu frantic instruct to mark him.

charlton's earli pressur paid off when bartlett receiv a long ball from talal el karkouri in the box and laid it off to holland who buri hi right-foot strike. szilard nemeth, recal in place of joseph-desir job, wa twice deni hi chanc to get middlesbrough back on level term by dean kieli. the striker plai a great on-two with jimmi floyd hasselbaink onli to see kieli get down well to smother hi shot befor direct a header straight into the keeper's arm. boro had plenti of time on the ball but the addick comfort mop up the pressur - with kieli tip a hasselbaink header over the bar - to take their lead into half-time.

it wa all on-wai traffic after the break at the riversid as middlesbrough pour forward and kieli even save hreidarsson's blush when he palm the ball awai to prevent a charlton own goal. but the addick keeper could do noth about riggott's equalis in the 74th minut. the boro defend look suspici offsid as he got on the end of gareth southgat's misdirect effort, but despit the charlton protest hi goal stood. the addick did not let their head drop and bartlett left the boro defenc stand, pick up hreidarsson's cross to easili sink hi right-foot strike. but substitut graham wa on hand to grab a share of the point for the home side. the 19-year-old striker nod home the equalis - and hi first premiership goal - with five minut left on the clock.

"i felt we did enough to win the game even though the first half wa lacklustr. "we domin after the break, the player show a fantast respons and we should have gone on to win. "but for (charlton goalkeep) dean kieli, who made three tremend save, we could have score five or six."

"to take the lead and then to get pen back, it feel a littl bit like a defeat," admit kieli. "we were win but middlesbrough kept knock on the door. but we stood up and credit to us we didn't capitul. "we'll kick on now. our short-term ambit is to progress from the seventh place finish from last year."

nash, reizig (graham 82), riggott, southgat, queudru, parlour (job 86), doriva, nemeth (parnabi 87), zenden, down, hasselbaink.

sub not us: cooper, knight.

riggott 74, graham 86.

kieli, hreidarsson, perri, el karkouri, young, koncheski, murphi (euell 78), holland, kishishev, thoma (johansson 72), bartlett.

sub not us: fish, jeffer, andersen.

koncheski, hreidarsson, perri.

holland 14, bartlett 80.

29,603

m rilei (w yorkshir).
