dunde utd 4-1 aberdeen

dunde unit eas into the semi-final of the scottish cup with an emphat win over aberdeen.

alan archibald prod unit ahead in 19 minut and jame gradi made it two from close rang 10 minut later. richi byrn's header gave aberdeen a wai back into the game, but stevi crawford restor unit's lead from 18 yard befor half time. the score wa complet by gradi just after the break - a superb shot on the turn make it 4-1. toni bullock in the unit goal wa call into action for the first time with just over a quarter-of-an-hour on the clock. noel whelan laid the ball off to jami winter on the edg of the box, but hi first-time effort wa gather by the unit keeper. moment later though, the home side took the lead. barri robson whip in a free kick from the right, which stevi crawford caught on the vollei. russel anderson fail to deal with it and whelan's clearanc off the line land kindli at the feet of archibald, who poke the ball into the net. unit doubl their lead after 29 minut when gradi tap the ball into an empti net after robson had head mark wilson's cross off the angl of post and bar. but onli three minut later aberdeen claw their wai back into the match. a free kick from the left by winter wa met powerfulli by the head of byrn at the back post, leav bullock helpless.

unit restor their two-goal lead four minut befor the end of a highli entertain first half. jason scotland plai a perfectli-weight pass into the path of the onrush crawford and he coolli beat ryan esson from 18 yard. unit end the game as a contest just two minut after the interv. gradi receiv a pass from crawford with hi back to goal on the edg of the box and after take on touch, he spun to vollei the ball past the despair dive of esson. the home side were in complet control and it requir a good stop from esson to keep out robson's drive after 62 minut. the keeper deni the same player again 10 minut later, beat awai hi fierc shot from the left of the penalti area. robson saw anoth long-rang effort tip round the post befor a cute lob wa head off the line.

bullock, duff, wilson, ritchi, archibald, scotland (samuel 63), brebner, kerr (cameron 87), robson, crawford, gradi.

colgan, dodd, kenneth.

brebner.

archibald 19, gradi 29, crawford 41, gradi 47.

esson, hart, anderson, diamond, byrn (morrison 75), mcnaughton, heikkinen (foster 27), winter, clark (stewart 51), macki, whelan.

blanchard, mcguir.

: anderson, diamond.

byrn 33.

8,661

k clark
