clyde 0-5 celtic

celtic brush asid clyde to secur their place in the scottish cup semi-final, but onli after a nervi and test first half.

the home side's craig bryson had a goal chop off befor stan varga head celtic into the lead. alan thompson score from the penalti spot at the start of the second half after shaun malonei had been foul. stilian petrov slid in a third, varga tap in hi second and craig bellami complet the rout with a fine drive. bryn halliwel wa the busier keeper earli on, save from bellami, chri sutton and juninho. clyde had the ball in the net after half-an-hour through a tremend strike from bryson, but the refere had alreadi blown for a foul by petrov. from the result free kick, darren sheridan curl the ball round the celtic wall onli for the post to deni him. back at the other end, halliwel did well to come off hi line and block bellami's effort to lift the ball over him. the keeper misjudg a corner that stephan henchoz head wide, but a similar scenario five minut befor the break led to the open goal. the ball wa deliv from the left and halliwel wa left flounder as varga glanc the ball into the net.

malonei replac the injur sutton at half time and he mark hi first competit appear after a year out injur by help hi side take a two-goal lead just after the break. the young striker fire a free kick straight into the clyde wall but as he collect the rebound, he wa trip by bryson and thompson convert the penalti. sheridan and bellami were involv in someth of a flare-up that led to both be book after the intervent of the assist refere. juninho brought out anoth good save from halliwel and then petrov saw a tremend effort come off the top of the bar. but petrov and juninho combin brilliantli to allow the bulgarian to make it 3-0 on the hour mark - a quick on-two give him the time and space to steer the ball past halliwel from 12 yard. varga got hi second goal of the game as celtic drove home their advantag - thompson whip in a corner from the right and the unmark defend simpli tap the ball over the line from a coupl of yard out. celtic were utterli domin by thi stage and bellami open hi score account for the club after a fine move involv aiden mcgeadi, jacki mcnamara and malonei culmin in the welshman hammer the ball into the net. halliwel kept the deficit at five by push a mcgeadi shot wide as the game peter out.

halliwel, mens, bollan, balmer, potter, sheridan (burn 61), arbuckl (gilhanei 61), gibson, bryson (jone 78), malon, harti.

morrison, wilson.

mens, sheridan.

dougla, henchoz, mcnamara, bald, varga, juninho paulista, thompson, lennon (lambert 70), sutton (malonei 45), petrov (mcgeadi 70), bellami.

marshal, laursen.

thompson, bellami.

: varga 40, thompson 48 pen, petrov 60, varga 68, bellami 72.

8,200

c thomson
