heart 2-1 livingston

heart wrap up their scottish cup quarter-final tie against livingston with two goal in the first 10 minut.

lee miller score insid the open 60 second, head over colin meldrum and into the net from a jami mcallist free kick. mcallist himself score the second when he met saul mikoliuna' cross at the back post to put the game beyond the visitor. craig easton head in a controversi goal after an hour but heart held on. the open goal came after gu bahoken had clumsili foul miller 35 yard from goal. mcallist float the free kick into the livi box and miller outjump the static visit defenc to loop hi header from 10 yard over meldrum. with just 10 minut on the clock, the home side doubl their lead. mikoliuna sprint down the right, cross to the back post where mcallist race in to head past meldrum. moment later miller came close to grab hi second with a first-time drive from 16 yard, which skim the bar.

then mcallist pick up a pass from stephen simmon and drove an angl shot from 20 yard narrowli past meldrum's far post. the impress mikoliuna twice went close befor half time - a low drive wa comfort gather by meldrum and then he curl a left-foot shot past the keeper's right-hand post. livi manag richard gough made three chang at the interv, bring on defend goran stanic, midfield gabor vincz, and striker ferenc horvath for bahoken, derek lillei and mark wilson. but, in the open stage of the second period, littl chang. howev, the west lothian side gave themselv a lifelin with a controversi goal. eric deloumeaux sent jason dair awai on the right and he tri to give the ball to mcpake, who look to be in an offsid posit. the livi striker ignor the pass, howev, and dair ran on to it and plai easton in at the back post and he head home from close rang. the home side call for offsid against mcpake but refere alan freeland ignor their claim and point to the centr-circl. livi went all out for the equalis. in the 87th minut, burton o'brien wa haul back at the edg of the box by neil macfarlan, but dair sent hi shot just inch wide.

gordon, webster, miller, hartlei, neilson, mcallist, simmon (macfarlan 64), berra, burchil (wyness 82), mikoliuna (cesnauski 77), wallac.

moilanen, kizi.

berra, webster.

miller 1, mcallist 10.

meldrum, mcname, bahoken (stanic 45), deloumeaux, strong, dair, easton, mark wilson (vincz 45), lillei (horvath 45), o'brien, mcpake.

mckenzi, hand.

: vincz, horvath.

easton 60.

9,796

a freeland
