bridg could miss rest of season

chelsea left-back wayn bridg could miss the rest of the season with a suspect broken ankl.

the england intern, 24, wa hurt in an innocu challeng with alan shearer dure the london' fa cup defeat at newcastl on sundai. "we think it's a big injuri," said jose mourinho, whose chelsea team thi week meet barcelona in the champion leagu and liverpool in the carl cup final. william galla and damien duff could also miss the barcelona game. franc defend galla and ireland winger duff both pick up their injuri in the close stage of chelsea's 1-0 defeat at st jame' park.

with bridg have gone off after mourinho us all three substitut, those knock plu carlo cudicini's red card meant chelsea finish the game with seven abl-bodi player. cudicini would not have plai against barcelona, but had been promis a game in the carl cup final, although he will now miss the cardiff showpiec through suspens. the manag is not plan to add ani new name to hi squad ahead of the trip to barcelona, even though he ha few option to replac bridg at left-back.

celestin babayaro left the club in januari, iron to join newcastl, and although galla ha deputis at left-back befor, he is struggl to be fit himself. it could be that paulo ferreira, usual a right-back, is switch to left-back with glen johnson, who end the newcastl game in goal, plai on the right. youngster ben hudel, joe keenan and sam tillen would be option should mourinho decid to call up a replac, but it is unlik he would risk an untri prospect in a champion leagu tie. bridg's injuri also mean mourinho, who reportedli want to sign ashlei cole from arsen, will not have a specialist, senior left-back for the run-in to the season.

"he (bridg) ha no chanc of plai against barcelona, probabl will not plai against liverpool (in the carl cup final) and mayb not for the rest of the season," he said. "the medic depart will try to do everyth to recov galla and duff. we will have to wait and see, but i won't cry about injuri becaus we will have 11 player to plai on tuesdai." shearer said he wa unsur what caus bridg's injuri. "i don't know what happen." he said. "it wa just a shame. i don't think we even touch each other. "by all account it's pretti seriou. i went into the dress-room after the game and wish him all the best." mourinho, whose team ar chase three trophi, ha alreadi lost winger arjen robben to a seriou injuri.
