parri firm over gerrard

listen to the full interview on sport on five and the bbc sport websit from 1900 gmt.

but parri, speak exclus to bbc sport, also admit gerrard, who ha been constantli link with chelsea, will have the final sai on hi futur. he told bbc five live: "steven is abov monei. he is the futur of liverpool. "it doesn't matter if it's £30m, £40m or £50m, we will not accept offer. but we ar also realist enough to know we can't keep steven against hi will." on the subject of liverpool's financ, parri also reveal the club is readi to explor the possibl of a sponsorship deal for it propos new stadium.

and respond to critic from bbc sport pundit and former liverpool stalwart alan hansen, he insist talk on new invest ar ongo, but ad the door ha not close on sharehold and lifelong fan steve morgan. parri join liverpool as chief execut in juli 1998 from a similar role at the premier leagu. there have been sever high and low dure hi time in charg at anfield - and he had a busi summer, overse the arriv of new manag rafael benitez and manag to hold on to steven gerrard.

on the subject of liverpool's captain and prize asset, parri reveal real madrid

did

ask for an option on the england midfield man dure negoti for striker fernando morient. he said: "thei were look for wai of sai thei got more out of the deal for fernando morient, but the respons to real madrid wa the same - steven is not for sale." but when ask if gerrard would be a liverpool player on the first dai of next season, parri said: "i sincer hope he will be. steven know my view. he know rafa's view. "we have re-affirm recent to steven that we ar try to build a team around him. we crave success as much as he doe. we know he's ambiti and nobodi can argu with that.

"i think steven would dearli love to win thing with liverpool more than he'd like to do anyth els. "we all want to see progress by next season. he's not alon in that. there ar a lot of other player who feel the same, so we all have a common aim." it is expect chelsea will test liverpool with a £30m-plu bid in the summer - but parri claim he will be in no mood to listen. "there have been a lot of open secret about steven, most of which have been complet myth. it is suggest we had a deal ti up last summer. we didn't had an offer last summer," parri explain. "we had told chelsea that as far as we were concern he wa not for sale and we didn't want to sell him. in realiti it didn't go beyond that. "mayb there will be an offer in the summer. mayb there won't.

"our posit is we want steven to stai, but we ar also realist enough and have enough respect for steven - and he ha enough respect for us - to know that it is hi decis that will be crucial. "you ar not go to keep a player like steven against hi will. that just doesn't work, but ani idea we ar go to accept offer for steven and then tell him 'by the wai we've decid to sell you' is not on the agenda. you can forget that." parri is current in the process of finalis fund for liverpool's new stadium in stanlei park, which is set to open in 2007. and he confess arsen's £100m deal with emir to sponsor their new ground - complet with name right - ha given the anfield club seriou food for thought. he said: "i have to sai histor it is someth i have been against, and i have been on record as sai that, but i think the size of the arsen deal is a real ey-open.

"i would sai in the past deal have been done frankli far too cheapli and it just hasn't even been worth contempl. "but the arsen deal is the sort of deal that caus you to draw breath and sai 'wow - that's interest.' "my person point of view is that i would find it a hell of a lot more palat than a share stadium." some liverpool fan would find such a move highli controversi, but parri counter: "i recognis it would be an emot issu for mani support, but you look at the amount of monei avail and it could go into the team. "if it wa the right partner how strong an issu is it? time will tell. "i think the stadium will alwai be anfield, not least becaus of where it is, but do we need to investig the possibl of sponsorship? i think it would be remiss not to. "that's not to sai we have made a decis that we will go down that road, but i think it is clearli someth we have to explor."

on the subject of possibl new invest, parri reveal liverpool ar still in negoti with a mysteri investor, with rumour of interest from the middl east. that prompt the withdraw of tycoon steve morgan, who got frustrat by fail bid and what he claim wa indecis by the board. he also accus liverpool of us him as "a stalk hors" to attract other bid, but parri explain: "steve ha never been us as a stalk hors. there's no need, and that is not the wai we do busi. "we had discuss with steve over the cours of 2004. i think we came close to conclud a deal in the summer but it didn't happen. "quit genuin, the new interest did appear rel late in the dai just prior to the agm in decemb, and as i have said it wa of such potenti magnitud, and that potenti is so excit, we felt we had to evalu it. we ar still evalu it. "steve's interest wa taken veri much on it own merit. hi enthusiasm for the club is there for all to see and who know what the next few month will hold? "the door isn't close on anyth. we had a perfectli sensibl dialogu with steve last year. "we have a common interest in make liverpool success. that's a dream we all share, so as far as i'm concern the door is not close."

i would take £50m if we had no invest, but if we did, keep him. as for the stadium, if it get us cash what differ doe it make realli?

£50m for gerrard? i don't care who you ar, the director would take the monei and it is the wai it should be. we cannot let that sum of monei go, despit gerrard's qualiti.

through a cleverli word statement, the club ha effect forc gerrard to publicli make the decis for himself, which i think is the right thing to do.

critic time for liverpool with regard to gerrard. ideal we would want to secur hi futur to the club for the long term. i am hope he doesn't walk out of the club like michael owen did for veri littl cash.

£50m realist would allow rafa to complet rebuild the squad, howev, if we can afford to do thi and keep gerrard we will be better for it. i would howev be happi with gerrard's transfer for ani fee over £35m.

parri's statement ar clever in that ani futur gerrard transfer cannot be constru as a lack of ambit by the club to not try and keep their best player. up the ant is anoth smart move by parri.

i would keep gerrard. no amount of monei could replac hi obviou love of the club and determin to succe.

the kei is if gerrard come out and sai that he is happi. clearli, if he isn't, then we would be foolish not to sell. the worri thing is who would you bui (or who would come) pend possibl non-champion leagu footbal.
