gigg hand wale lead role

ryan gigg will captain wale as he win hi 50th cap in wednesdai's friendli against hungari in cardiff.

john toshack, in hi first game as coach after succeed mark hugh, admit he is surpris that gigg ha onli just reach the landmark. "with the game he's plai for unit, proportion it doesn't seem that mani for wale," toshack said. "but he's on of the greatest of all welsh intern and on hi 50th cap it's appropri he's captain." gigg admit he had briefli consid retir from the intern game, but is now target plai for wale in the 2008 european championship. the manchest unit wing reveal how club manag sir alex ferguson talk him into extend hi wale career. "i briefli discuss my intern futur with sir alex, but he urg me to carri on," gigg said. "he feel, like myself, that i have no weight problem and keep myself fit, so in three or four year' time i will be abl to plai in the european final if we get there. "the manag ha alwai want me to plai for my club and countri and he wa keen for me to continu becaus i am fit enough."

gigg admit he wa waver and consid join the like of former wale skipper gari speed and unit team-mate paul schole in commit the remain year of hi career to club footbal. but gigg is now focuss on make the toshack era even more success than the time hugh spent at the helm. the manchest unit winger won hi first cap as a 17-year-old in 1991, an awai loss to germani, and now face hi landmark appear at the ag of 31. with gigg lead wale out against hungari, there is everi chanc that he will becom the perman successor to speed. howev, toshack refus to reveal whether he see gigg as a long-term option. "for thi particular game i think it is appropri that ryan gigg will be captain, it's hi 50th cap and he's known for some time about that," toshack said. on wednesdai night toshack take charg of hi first match sinc replac hugh, and gigg said: "it's my 50th cap and i am look forward to it, and i hope to plai a lot more time from here on in. "it's import to be here, all the player feel the same. it's a new start and all the top player certainli see it as import. "i see myself lead by exampl, it is someth i have taken on for wale as well as unit these past few season. "the wai john is look at thing, he is aim to build hi side around the experienc lad right up to the next tournament, the euro 2006 event. "i have told john i will be around for the next european tournament, by then i will be 35 so hopefulli i will still be okai. "a lot can happen, but i'm hope to be around." gigg' own person futur at old trafford is still up in the air as he ha yet to reach agreement on a new contract, with manchest unit offer on extra year and gigg seek two. "i have put the contract thing to the back of my mind at the moment," said gigg. "it is an import period for the club and i am just concentr on that. "i've heard the suggest, hopefulli there is a two-year deal about to be offer becaus that is what i am look for, to get it sort out. "i'm enjoi my footbal, the wai unit have been plai and my own form, you have to enjoi it. "we have massiv game come up: manchest citi thi week, then the everton cup tie, follow by ac milan in the champion leagu, and my first wale game under john toshack, so it's an import time."
