parri relish anfield challeng

bbc sport reflect on the futur for liverpool after our exclus interview with chief execut rick parri.

chief execut parri is the man at the helm as liverpool reach the most crucial point in their recent histori. parri ha to deliv a new 60,000-seat stadium in stanlei park by 2007 amid claim of cost spiral abov £120m. he is also search for an invest packag of a size and statur that will restor liverpool to their place at european footbal's top tabl. but it is a challeng that appear to sit easili with parri, who ha forg a reput as on of footbal's most respect administr sinc hi dai at the fledgl premier leagu.

liverpool have not won the championship sinc 1990, a fact that caus deep discomfort insid anfield as thei attempt to muscl in on the top three of chelsea, manchest unit and arsen. throw in the small matter of ward off everi top club in world footbal as thei ey captain steven gerrard, and you can see parri is a man with a lot on hi plate. but in the comfort of a confer room deep insid liverpool's heartbeat - the kop end - parri spoke to us with brutal honesti about the crucial month ahead. he onli dodg on question - when ask to reveal the name of the mysteri investor current court liverpool, a polit smile deflect the inquiri. but to hi credit, he met everyth els head on in measur tone that underscor the belief that liverpool still mean busi.

by busi he mean becom titl challeng again, and lock the piec togeth that will help return the trophi to liverpool is parri's mission. parri ha alreadi successfulli put on of those plank in place in the form of new manag rafael benitez. and hi enthusiasm for the spaniard's person and method is an indic of hi clear feel that he ha struck gold. benitez's earli work ha given parri renew optim about the year ahead. but it remain a massiv task at a club with a uniqu histori and expect. thi will not come as new to parri, a lifelong liverpool support, but hi quiet determin suggest he is no mood to be found want...

captain gerrard is central to liverpool's plan and parri's insist that all offer will be refus is a firm statement of intent. as ever, the player will have the final sai, and parri acknowledg that, but he is determin to provid the framework and environ for liverpool and gerrard to flourish.

in term of the search for new invest, hawkpoint were appoint as advisor to flush out interest in march 2004. thailand prime minist thaksin shiniwatra came and went, while the most seriou statement of intent came from tycoon and lifelong fan steve morgan. morgan had a success of bid reject, have come close in the summer onli for talk to break down over potenti cost for the new stadium. bbc sport understand morgan is still readi and will to invest in liverpool, and parri ha kept the door ajar despit current seek invest elsewher.

morgan, howev, ha had no formal contact with liverpool or their advisor sinc last decemb, blame indecis at board level as he publicli withdrew hi £70m offer. he wa also convinc hi interest wa be us to lure in other, so ani new approach would now have to come from liverpool. morgan will certainli not be make anoth call. so specul continu about the new benefactor, with trail lead to the middl east and america, but all met with an understand veil of secreci from anfield.

parri meanwhil see the new ground as crucial to liverpool's futur, but is refus to becom emotion attach to the idea. he is determin the ground will onli be built on an afford basi and will not make futur liverpool manag hostag to the new stadium. parri will pull back the moment the figur do not stack up, but there ha been a vital new develop in north london that ha re-shape liverpool's think.

liverpool have publicli refus to entertain the idea of stadium sponsorship and potenti name right - but the realism of arsen's stun £100m deal for their new emir stadium at ashburton ha chang the landscap. parri label the deal "an ey-open" and admit liverpool would be miss a trick not to explor the possibl. he know some traditionalist liverpool fan will reel at ani attempt to call the new stadium anyth other than just 'anfield', but the math of modern-dai footbal decre that multi-million for stadium and team could eas the pain.

i would take £50m if we had no invest, but if we did, keep him. as for the stadium, if it get us cash what differ doe it make realli?

£50m for gerrard? i don't care who you ar, the director would take the monei and it is the wai it should be. we cannot let that sum of monei go, despit gerrard's qualiti.

through a cleverli word statement, the club ha effect forc gerrard to publicli make the decis for himself, which i think is the right thing to do.

critic time for liverpool with regard to gerrard. ideal we would want to secur hi futur to the club for the long term. i am hope he doesn't walk out of the club like michael owen did for veri littl cash.

£50m realist would allow rafa to complet rebuild the squad, howev, if we can afford to do thi and keep gerrard we will be better for it. i would howev be happi with gerrard's transfer for ani fee over £35m.

parri's statement ar clever in that ani futur gerrard transfer cannot be constru as a lack of ambit by the club to not try and keep their best player. up the ant is anoth smart move by parri.

i would keep gerrard. no amount of monei could replac hi obviou love of the club and determin to succe.

the kei is if gerrard come out and sai that he is happi. clearli, if he isn't, then we would be foolish not to sell. the worri thing is who would you bui (or who would come) pend possibl non-champion leagu footbal.
