time to get tough on friendli?

for an intern manag, a friendli provid an import opportun to work with your player.

the onli problem is that the game itself can often be a farc. some peopl have been sai it would be better to get the player togeth for the week, and do awai with the 90 minut at the end.

i would sai it's 50-50 whether you should have these game or not, and if you look at it that wai you would probabl sai you're better not do so. it would certainli keep club manag happi, as it would reduc the risk of player return to domest duti injur. but intern boss will tell you that scrap friendli is counterproduct becaus the onli wai for a team to get better is by plai. the more you plai togeth, the easier it is when it come to the crunch in game like world cup quarter-final against brazil. often in friendli, though, a manag will plai hi strongest side for the first 45 minut and then send out an entir differ on in the second half. and it's veri difficult for ani player to come on as substitut in a side with a few chang, let alon a whole team's worth. the debat will rage on, and i'm not sure there is a satisfactori solut. on manag who ha got it right thi week is walter smith. the new scotland manag ha decid to have a train camp instead of a friendli for hi first intern week sinc replac berti vogt. it is the sort of move you would expect from walter, who is a canni manag.

the player have had such a hard time recent that he is better off get them togeth in a relax atmospher and try to gener some team spirit befor the next world cup qualifi. if he had sent them out on wednesdai and thei had been badli beaten, it would have done them no good whatsoev. john toshack ha hi first game in charg of wale, and it will be import for him to get a decent result against hungari. he will have hi own idea on individu and how to plai and will probabl look more at the perform, but the public want result. it's extrem difficult to get the balanc for friendli. if you win, peopl forget them, but if you lose it becom a stat that can be us against you. england's game against holland is a good exampl. it look like a good opportun to try out player like middlesbrough winger stewart down or crystal palac striker andi johnson. but you have got to rememb sven-goran eriksson's side were given a lesson by spain in the last game thei plai.

the injuri problem in defenc should at least give the like of we brown and jami carragh a chanc to impress. for the club manag, it will simpli be a case of wait at home with finger cross.
