mccall earn tannadic repriev

dunde unit manag ian mccall ha won a repriev from the sack, with chairman eddi thompson call for an end to specul over hi futur.

it is understood that mccall would have been sack if sheffield wednesdai manag paul sturrock had been will to return to tannadic. but sturrock ha distanc himself from the posit. "we're in a difficult situat. we must get out of it through the effort of current personnel," said thompson. "ian mccall and i have had a long and detail talk about a number of area includ the current leagu posit and the manner of the exit from the leagu cup," he ad. "howev, the continu specul is do no on ani good, especi as we have sever crucial game come up. "the mind of the coach staff and the player have to be on those game and those game onli. "our season would of cours improv consider if in the next few week we achiev some improv leagu result and there is also the potenti of anoth cup semi-final, subject to the draw.

"all that matter at the present time - is us all have a total focu on the game ahead and a posit seri of result be achiev." dunde unit player had express their solidar with mccall after their side's 3-0 scottish cup win over queen of the south. "we want the boss to stai, we don't want someon els come in," said jim mcintyr. "hopefulli now he get the chanc to stai." keeper toni bullock echo mcintyr's sentiment. "i think all the boi ar behind ian mccall," he ad. "at the moment it is all specul and we have got to rise abov all that and do a job on the pitch."

on saturdai, sturrock insist that he had unfinish busi with wednesdai, who ar fourth in leagu on. "i've onli been here five month and i don't expect to be leav veri, veri soon," he said. "i can appreci the rumour becaus i've emphasis my thought and ambit to go back to dunde unit. "i can assur you the timescal is not the right on. "it (dunde unit) is my team. i had five year there as a coach, six as a player, two year as a manag - onc you've done that kind of thing, it's the result you look for. "the import thing now is i've come here to do a job and i'm go to try to finish it."
