chelsea deni by jame heroic

a brave defens displai, led by keeper david jame, help manchest citi hold the leader chelsea.

after a quiet open, jame deni damien duff, jiri jarosik and mateja kezman, while paul bosvelt clear william galla' header off the line. robbi fowler should have score for the visitor but sent hi header wide. chelsea had most of the possess in the second half but jame kept out frank lampard's free-kick and superbl tip the same player's vollei wide. citi went into the game with the proud record of be the onli domest team to beat chelsea thi season. and there wa littl to alarm them in the first 30 minut as chelsea - depriv of arjen robben and didier drogba through injuri - struggl to pose much of a threat. inde, it wa the visitor who look likeli to enliven a drab open plai at a letharg pace. shaun wright-phillip - watch by england boss sven-goran eriksson - show hi customari trickeri to burst into the right of the area and deliv a danger ball, which wa block by john terri. but chelsea suddenli step up a gear and creat a flurri of chanc. first, duff got round ben thatcher and blast in a shot that jame parri to kezman, who turn the ball wide.

soon afterward, jarosik found space in the area to powerfulli head lampard's corner goalward but jame tip the ball over. chelsea were now look more like premiership leader and jame kept out kezman's fierc drive befor bosvelt and jame combin to clear galla' header from duff's corner. citi broke swiftli up the field and the last chanc of a frenet spell should have result in fowler celebr hi 150th premiership goal. wright-phillip race down the left and cross to fowler but citi's lone man up front, left free by terri's slip, contriv to head wide when it seem a breakthrough wa certain. the second half start as quietli as the first, although jame wa forc to divert a cross from the live duff awai from eidur gudjohnsen's path. there wa a nasti moment for petr cech, look for a ninth straight clean sheet in the leagu, when a seri of ricochet saw fowler chase a loos ball in the area and collid accid with the czech republ stopper. anoth quiet spell follow, which duff interrupt with a surg run that wa halt illeg on the edg of the penalti area by bosvelt. lampard step up to blast a shot through the wall and jame somehow block it with hi leg. anoth time challeng, thi time from richard dunn in time ad on, prevent gudjohnsen from get in a shot. there wa still time for jame to produc a sensat save to tip lampard's vollei round the post.

cech, paulo ferreira, galla, terri, bridg, jarosik (tiago 56), lampard, makelel, duff, gudjohnsen, kezman (cole 63).

sub not us: johnson, smertin, cudicini.

makelel, gudjohnsen.

jame, mill, distin, dunn, thatcher, shaun wright-phillip, bosvelt, barton, sibierski (mcmanaman 85), musampa, fowler.

sub not us: macken, weaver, onuoha, jordan.

bosvelt.

42,093

h webb (s yorkshir).
