chelsea ridicul over complaint

barcelona assist coach henk ten cate ha brand chelsea's expect complaint to uefa as "pathet".

the blue ar pois to complain about an alleg half-time incid dure wednesdai's 2-1 loss at the nou camp. the sourc of chelsea's anger wa an alleg talk between barca boss frank rijkaard and refere ander frisk, who later dismiss didier drogba. "to react the wai chelsea have is pathet. mourinho li with the line-up, and now thi," ten cate said. uefa ha said it own tunnel repres wit noth unusu out of the ordinari dure the half-time break. spokesman william gaillard said: "frisk sai rijkaard greet him and apologis he had not had the opportun to sai hello befor the game. "we had two uefa offici there and neither wit it. the refere's dress room wa lock and he and hi assist were the onli peopl allow in." inde, it is the london who could be on the receiv end of ani punish after fail to turn up for the compulsori press confer after the defeat.

uefa deleg thoma giordano ad: "the onli unusu thing that happen as far as we ar concern is that chelsea fail to present themselv in the press confer." the refere is not expect to includ ani of the alleg incid in hi report to uefa - weaken chelsea's case. rijkaard wa critic of mourinho's decis not to speak to the media after the match. "there wa a lot of talk befor the game and now surprisingli there is a lot of talk after the game. it is not good behaviour after a match," he said. "mayb thei want to start someth and make it wors than than it is. i realli don't understand it. i am veri calm about it."

barca midfield deco, formerli manag by mourinho at porto, agre that it wa not typic of hi fellow portugues to lodg a protest. "it's not normal behaviour on hi part. it wa not logic he did not give a new confer," he said. rijkaard ad: "chelsea is the team which ha conced fewest goal in the english leagu and thei defend veri well so i am veri pleas with the win. "my men deserv victori and i am pleas to have won thi match. i congratul my player."
