owen determin to stai in madrid

england forward michael owen ha told the bbc he is happi in spain and ha no plan to quit real madrid to return to the premiership in the near futur.

but the 25-year-old, who ha spent much of hi time come off the bench in la liga, did not rule out a return to the premiership at some stage. "i'm pleas with the start i've made here," he told bbc radio five live. "england is my countri. it's definit part of me but who know whether, if or when i'll be plai there again." owen, who move to the bernabeu from liverpool last summer, ha grab 11 goal for real but ha been unabl to replac raul or ronaldo in the start line-up. howev, he said he wa delight with the wai hi time in spain wa go and dismiss critic of hi decis to join real. "when i first came there wa a lot of sceptic back in england, ani mayb some out here," he said. "peopl were sai 'fourth-choic striker, what ar you go there for? you'll be sat on the bench all the time'.

"but as much as our press like to build it up as if i've perman had my backsid on the bench, i've plai as mani game as anyon els in the team thi year. "for a fourth-choic striker at the start i'm more than happi with the wai i've settl in." recent specul ha link owen with a move back to england, with newcastl express their interest, but the england striker said he is not readi to return home. he ad: "i've got noth against the premiership, i mean that's where i first perform, that's where i made my name.

"i can't keep my ey off the premiership on televis when i'm at home." when ask if it would have to be liverpool if he return owen said: "i've not realli given it much thought. "i've got great memori of liverpool. no matter what happen it'll alwai be a club i have fond memori of and it will alwai have a place in my heart. "it's veri flatter to be link to top club in england - i'm glad that no-on is forget me! "but i couldn't have wish for a better start in madrid."

- listen to the full interview with garri richardson on bbc radio five live's sportsweek at 0900 gmt on sundai.
