ranger seal old firm win

goal from gregori vignal and nacho novo gave ranger a scrappi victori at celtic park that move them three point clear of the champion.

ranger had rare threaten until celtic goalkeep rab dougla let defend vignal's 25-yard drive slip through hi grasp and into the net. opposit number ronald waterreu had been ranger' hero, save superbl from craig bellami and john hartson. striker novo secur victori, lob dougla with eight minut remain. it end celtic's 11-game unbeaten run at home in old firm derbi and gave ranger manag alex mcleish hi first victori at the home of hi glasgow rival. celtic had won their last six meet on their home pitch, includ twice alreadi thi season. thei start confid, with new sign bellami, on loan from newcastl unit, given hi celtic debut up front with wale intern colleagu john hartson and chri sutton drop into midfield. it took bellami just four minut to threaten, take on marvin andrew befor deliv a low drive that wa held by waterreu at the second attempt. he had an even better chanc after hartson disposses sotiri kyrgiako and sent hi strike partner clear with onli the goalkeep to beat. but waterreu did well to beat awai bellami's disappoint low drive from 16 yard. waterreu came to the rescu again when the ball fell to hartson just insid the box and the dutch goalkeep made a brave block. it wa an old firm return for barri ferguson as mcleish stuck by the side that thump four goal past hibernian. but ranger found celtic harder to break down and dougla wa not threaten until 10 minut after the break. dado prso turn insid neil lennon onli for the celtic goalkeep to beat awai hi power 18-yard drive. a great defens header by andrew prevent hartson pounc from five yard out. hartson fox vignal at the edg of the ranger box, but the striker's shot on the turn wa again beaten awai by waterreu. ranger were begin to domin the midfield and vignal, collect a knock back from fernando ricksen, broke the deadlock, dougla somehow let the frenchman's dip drive slip through hi grasp. novo pounc on a moment' hesit in the celtic defenc to latch on to a long ball from ricksen and lob the ball over the advanc dougla. ricksen appear to be hit by a coin, but it could not prevent ranger' celebr at the final whistl.

: dougla, mcnamara, bald, varga, laursen, petrov, lennon, sutton, thompson, bellami, hartson.

sub: marshal, henchoz, juninho paulista, lambert, malonei, wallac, mcgeadi.

: waterreu, hutton, kyrgiako, andrew, ball, buffel, ferguson, ricksen, vignal, prso, novo.

sub: mcgregor, namouchi, burk, alex rae, malcolm, thompson, lovenkrand.

: m mccurri
