ferguson fear milan cut edg

manchest unit manag sir alex ferguson said hi side's task against ac milan would not be made ani easier by the absenc of andrii shevchenko.

milan's talisman european footbal of the year miss wednesdai's champion leagu first-leg tie after fractur hi cheekbon. "it's a loss (to milan), but it could be wors if thei didn't have such qualiti to bring in," ferguson said. "how much thei miss him i think thei'll know tomorrow night." ferguson said milan's front line would still repres a formid challeng for hi defend. "thei can plai rui costa and plai kaka forward. thei can bring serginho in and thei can plai (jon dahl) tomasson," he said. ferguson's own goalscor talisman ruud van nistelrooi is fit again, but the scot admit he wa unsur whether to start the dutchman, who ha not plai for three month.

"ruud is the best striker in europ. what i have to judg is whether he will struggl with the earli pace after be out for so long," he said. "hi abil put him in with a big shout but it is a major decis." ferguson, though, is confid hi young player, particularli wayn roonei and cristiano ronaldo, ar up to the task. "we have an opportun to win thi cup thi year, no question about that," he declar. "with the matur we see everi week in ronaldo and roonei, the return of van nistelrooi and the form of roi kean, paul schole and ryan gigg, we must have a fantast chanc." it is a view share by roonei, who believ "if we can get past milan, we have a great chanc". "as soon as i knew we were plai milan, i got excit. look at the draw, it is anyon's trophi but we have everi chanc. "hopefulli, we can get to that final in turkei and bring the cup back to manchest." milan coach carlo ancelotti said hi team were look forward to return to the venu where thei lift europ's most prestigi club titl two season ago. milan beat juventu in a penalti shootout after a 0-0 tie at old trafford and ancelotti said: "we ar all veri happi to return (to old trafford) to plai in the champion leagu and thi will give us great motiv." ancelotti said he wa awar of the threat unit pose to hi hope of champion leagu glori. "it's fundament that we don't allow them to take control of the game. our intent is not to adapt to their plai but to plai our game," he said. "thei have great qualiti in attack, thei us the wing a lot and we will have to make sure we stop them."
