hodgson relish european clash

former blackburn boss roi hodgson sai the premiership should follow the rest of europ and have a winter break - but insist that a gruell domest schedul will not damag the english elit's bid for champion leagu glori.

hodgson - now in charg at vike stavang - wa at liverpool's clash with bayer leverkusen at anfield on tuesdai as a member of uefa's technic committe. hodgson is a fierc advoc of the winter break emploi throughout europ, although not in england - where the champion leagu contend have plough through a heavi fixtur list. but hodgson told bbc sport that while he believ the premiership should embrac the idea, he doe not expect it to cost the english repres in the last 16 of the champion leagu. "i just feel it is veri difficult to sai with certainti that team who have had the break will have a definit edg. "i am a fervent support of the break. it give player the chanc to recharg their batteri midwai through the season, which some suggest will give team an advantag in the champion leagu. "the other school of thought suggest have a break then come back to it put you at a disadvantag. "the bigger discuss around the winter break should be to do with the natur of footbal todai, the need of footbal player and the wai the premiership ha develop, rather than on or two match in the champion leagu in februari." hodgson believ a winter break carri mani advantag, explain: "as i said, it is the perfect chanc to recharg batteri.

"and certainli if i wa still a manag in england i would be support ani call for it introduct. "in pre-season you get a lot of enthusiasm and energi but by the time you get toward christma mani player, have also plai plenti of intern match for club and countri and travel a lot, find themselv get veri jade. "the break give them a chanc to recov that energi and enthusiasm and, perhap more importantli, recov their mental strength dure the break and get readi for the game ahead. "the mental side is by far the most import thing." hodgson ad: "the length of break can vari. in itali the break wa veri short. you just took christma and new year. "it wa so short you didn't do anyth. you gave the player a week or 10 dai off, then you were train for a week or 10 dai and then went into a game. "if it is longer, it is import those respons for physic fit give the player a programm to follow to ensur the physic strength thei have accumul stai with them." and hodgson believ a winter break would be a posit step in the premiership. he said: "if we talk about footbal at elit level, which the premiership is, then i would support a winter break. "if you examin the demand of the premier leagu and, in particular on player who plai intern footbal for their club and countri, then a break would do them the world of good - physic and mental."
