arsen through on penalti

arsen win 4-2 on penalti

the spanish goalkeep save from alan quinn and jon harlei as arsen seal a quarter-final trip to bolton with a 4-2 victori on penalti. lauren, patrick vieira, freddi ljungberg and ashlei cole score for arsen, while andi grai and phil jagielka were on target for the blade. michael tong and harlei wast chanc for the underdog, but paddi kenni wa inspir to keep arsen at bai. arsen, strip of attack talent such as thierri henri and denni bergkamp, partner 17-year-old italian striker arturo lupoli with ljungberg up front. it wa a revamp arsen line-up, and thei were almost a goal behind within second as tong wast a gloriou chanc. grai ran free down the right flank, and hi cross left tong with the simplest of chanc, but he blaze over the top from six yard.

arsen were bare seen as an attack forc in the open 45 minut, although ljungberg turn a half-chanc wide after good work by cesc fabrega. arsen wenger introduc quinci owusu-abeyi for the ineffect lupoli at half-time, and the paci dutch youngster had an immedi impact. he ran clear after good work by mathieu flamini, but hi finish wa tame and kenni save easili. owusu-abeyi then fire in a test cross, which wa met by fabrega, and it need a desper clearanc by kenni's leg to save the blade. arsen were now total domin, and were desper unlucki not to take the lead after 62 minut when fabrega crash a rise drive against the bar from 20 yard. it then took a brilliant tackl by jagielka to deni ljungberg as he wa pois to strike. arsen continu to press, and onc again kenni wa call into action with eight minut left, dive low to clutch anoth close-rang effort from fabrega. neil warnock's side almost snatch victori in the dy second when derek geari's cross found harlei at the far post, but hi dive header wa brilliantli turn over by almunia. owusu-abeyi's pace wa caus all sort of problem for the blade, and as extra-time began, anoth surg run into the penalti area almost set up a chanc for ljungberg. pascal cygan miss arsen's best chanc after 106 minut, blaze across the face of goal when he wa unmark at the far post. arsen sent on jeremi aliadier with seven minut of extra-time left, and he almost broke the deadlock with hi first touch. kolo tour's misplac free-kick land at hi feet, but kenni onc again block from a tight angl. arsen laid sieg to sheffield unit's goal in the dy minut, but thei somehow held on to forc penalti. almunia wa then arsen's hero as anoth brave blade cup campaign came to a lose end.

kenni, geari, morgan, brombi, harlei, liddel, montgomeri, jagielka, thirlwel, tong (quinn 97), grai.

sub not us: franci, kabba, shaw, haystead.

morgan.

almunia, lauren, cygan, sendero, cole, fabrega (tour 90), vieira, flamini (aliadier 113), clichi, lupoli (owusu-abeyi 45), ljungberg.

sub not us: ebou, taylor.

clichi, lauren, sendero.

27,595

p dowd (staffordshir).
