desailli back blue reveng trip

marcel desailli insist there is no chanc of histori repeat itself when chelsea take on barcelona on wednesdai.

the french star wa part of the chelsea side crush 5-1 at the nou camp in the champion leagu quarter-final second leg in 2000. "thing will be total differ thi time," he told bbc sport. "now everyon know about chelsea and is a littl bit afraid of them. thei ar on of the major club in europ and the pressur will be on barcelona." chelsea have not plai barcelona sinc that quarter-final tie five year ago. the blue had look destin to progress after win the first leg at stamford bridg 3-1, courtesi of two goal from tore andr flo and on by gianfranco zola. but thei collaps in the second leg, go down to strike from rivaldo (2), lui figo, dani and patrick kluivert.

former chelsea captain desailli, who is now plai for al-gharafa in qatar, sai there is no comparison between that side and the current blue team, who ar top of the premiership. "mental thei ar much stronger, even though a lot of their player ar young," the 36-year-old said. "we made some mistak at the nou camp in 2000 - a lot of them were individu mistak. "it would not happen now. thi team ha a new motiv and a differ mental." world cup winner desailli saw huge chang dure hi time at stamford bridg. he wa sign for £4.6m from ac milan in 1998 by ruud gullit and went on to plai under gianluca vialli and claudio ranieri. but the biggest chang occur when billionair roman abramovich bought the club in 2003. desailli sai the russian's arriv help to instil a win mental at the club as well as a demand for success. "the whole of chelsea is differ now - the chairman, the manag and all the player," he said.

"everyth is new and there is a huge determin to win. "sinc that game in 2000, chelsea have gain more experi in europ and were veri close to reach the champion leagu final last season." desailli is on of the most decor player in the histori of footbal. he won the 1998 world cup and 2000 european championship with franc, the champion leagu in 1993 with marseil and 1994 with ac milan, two seri a titl and the fa cup in 2000 with chelsea.

he is now wind down hi career in qatar, alongsid the like of frank lebeouf, josep guardiola, titi camara, gabriel batistuta and christoph dugarri. so he is full of admir for two of hi colleagu from the great milan side of the mid-90s who ar like to line up against manchest unit on wednesdai - paolo maldini and alessandro costacurta. "i'm happi that thei have manag to plai so long at a high level," he said. "i made a vow to costacurta that as long as he plai, i will continu to plai. "and it's amaz that paolo ha manag to plai at such a high level for such a long time."
