redknapp's saint face pompei tie

new southampton manag harri redknapp face an immedi reunion with hi old club portsmouth after thei were drawn togeth in the fa cup fourth round.

exet citi face a home tie against middlesbrough if thei can see off holder manchest unit in a replai. oldham's reward for beat manchest citi is a home tie with bolton, while yeovil will be awai to charlton. chelsea host birmingham, tottenham travel to west brom and arsen will entertain championship side wolv. saint boss redknapp wa upbeat about the draw despit have to face the club he walk out on just six week ago. "i've said befor, i can walk awai from portsmouth with my head held high, i'm proud of what i did there and no on can take that awai from me," said redknapp. "mayb i'll be in for some stick, there's alwai some of that but we'll get on with it and it's onli a game of footbal." birmingham manag steve bruce admit their trip to stamford bridg to face premiership leader chelsea wa the toughest draw possibl. bruce said: "i'm still in shock. we've given good account of ourselv against chelsea in the past and plai well when we lost 1-0 at home at the start of the season - but that's the past. "but it's the best competit in the world as far as i am concern and we will give it our best shot." brentford boss martin allen remain cautiou despit hi side's favour draw - a home tie with either hartlepool or boston. "the best thing is, it's a home game. howev, we know that whoever we plai it is go to be a realli tough game," said allen. "but it's not about the opposit, it's about us. we all want to get through to the next round and face a massiv team, that's the wai it is."

meanwhil, the bbc ha confirm it will be televis exet's replai with man utd live on wednesdai 19 januari, from 1930 on bbc on.

derbi v watford or fulham

man utd or exet v middlesbrough

cardiff or blackburn v colchest

chelsea v birmingham

west ham v sheff utd

oldham v bolton

arsen v wolverhampton

everton v sunderland

nottm forest v peterborough

brentford v hartlepool or boston

read or swansea v leicest or blackpool

burnlei or liverpool v bournemouth

southampton v portsmouth

west brom v tottenham

newcastl v coventri

charlton v yeovil
