juninho demand for o'neill talk

juninho's agent ha confirm that the player is hope for talk with martin o'neill as the brazilian midfield come closer to depart celtic.

brian hassel sai no offici approach ha been receiv from manchest citi but that the english club had been earmark as a possibl destin. but it wa be stress to bbc sport that juninho would prefer to remain with the scottish champion. juninho want assur that he will return to o'neill's first-team plan. he ha becom frustrat with hi lack of first-team action sinc hi move from middlesbrough in the summer. hassel sai juninho, who ha just bought a new home, would "desper like to stai at celtic" but will seek a move if it is made clear that he is not want.

the agent also stress that noth should be read into the 30-year-old's father be in scotland and talk of a move back to botafogo in brazil. juninho's father wa simpli in the countri to see hi son and grandchildren. "i know there is interest from a brazilian club, but i know juninho doesn't want to go there," said hassel. "he want to stai in britain. in fact, he want to stai at celtic." hassal made it clear that a move to manchest citi, who ar badli in need of a midfield plai-maker, wa more of a possibl than botafogo, or mexican outfit red shark veracruz, who also express an interest. "it wa a thought at on stage," he said. "if you ar not go to get a game under on manag, you look for anoth whose style of plai suit you. "he is a fan of kevin keegan's style of plai. it would not be a bad move for him." juninho had earlier told the daili record: "the manag ha had a lot of chanc to put me in hi team but it hasn't happen. "if that is the case then thi is the opportun for me to go. that would be good for the club and good for me. "if i have no part in hi plan, there is no point in remain here wait for a chanc that never come." the attack midfield also claim he ha not had the back of boss martin o'neill sinc hi move to celtic park. "i can't understand why i am in thi situat," he continu. "when a manag bring a new player to the club, he give that player support."
