chelsea sack mutu

chelsea have sack adrian mutu after he fail a drug test.

the 25-year-old test posit for a ban substanc - which he later deni wa cocain - in octob. chelsea have decid to write off a possibl transfer fee for mutu, a £15.8m sign from parma last season, who mai face a two-year suspens. a statement from chelsea explain the decis read:"we want to make clear that chelsea ha a zero toler polici toward drug." mutu score six goal in hi first five game after arriv at stamford bridg but hi form went into declin and he wa frozen out by coach jose mourinho. chelsea's statement ad: "thi appli to both perform-enhanc drug or so-call 'recreat' drug. thei have no place at our club or in sport. "in come to a decis on thi case, chelsea believ the club's social respons to it fan, player, employe and other stakehold in footbal regard drug wa more import than the major financi consider to the compani. "ani player who take drug breach hi contract with the club as well as footbal associ rule. "the club total support the fa in strong action on all drug case." fifa's disciplinari code stipul that a first dope offenc should be follow by a six-month ban. and the sport's world govern bodi ha re-iter their stanc over mutu's fail drug test, maintain it is a matter for the domest sport author. "fifa is not in a posit to make ani comment on the matter until the english fa have inform us of their disciplinari decis and the relev inform associ with it," said a fifa spokesman. chelsea's move won back from drug-test expert michel verroken. verroken, a former director of drug-free sport for uk sport, insist the blue were right to sack mutu and have enhanc their reput by do so. "chelsea ar sai quit clearli to the rest of their player and their fan that thi is a situat thei ar not prepar to toler. "it wa a veri difficult decis for them and an expens decis for them but the term of hi contract were breach and it wa the onli decis thei could make. "it is a veri clear stanc by chelsea and it ha given a strong boost to the reput of the club." it emerg that mutu had fail a drug test on octob 18 and, although it wa initi report that the ban substanc in question wa cocain. the romanian intern later suggest it wa a substanc design to enhanc sexual perform. the footbal associ ha yet to act on mutu's fail drug test and refus to discuss hi case.
