arnesen deni rift with santini

tottenham sport director frank arnesen ha deni that coach jacqu santini resign becaus of a clash of person at white hart lane.

there had been newspap specul that santini had felt undermin by arnesen's role at the club. "it is absolut not true," arnesen told bbc radio five live. "there is onli on thing that made him resign and that is hi own person problem. "he ha talk to me recent and said thi matter is absolut for himself." arnesen said he wa unabl to throw ani light onto the problem that caus santini to quit after just 13 game in charg. he ad: "jacqu ha never gone into exactli what it wa. but i trust him in that; you have to accept it. i think we should respect it.

"the plan is now that over the weekend we will have talk with the board and then on mondai we will clarifi the situat." arnesen counter critic at the time of the announc, come less than 24 hour befor tottenham's premiership fixtur with charlton. "when it come down to person problem, i don't think we should talk about time," he said. and he also deni report that santini had been given a £3m pai-off. "that is absolut nonsens. he is the on who said 'i will go' and so he went'", said the spur sport director. tottenham's structur of have a sport director work alongsid a coach is base on a continent model and arnesen see no reason why thei should chang it.

"i have confid in thi structur. i am confid that we have start someth here in juli and i still have a lot of confid in tottenham and what we ar do," he said. howev, former spur and england defend gari steven said he would not be surpris if the system had caus a rift. "i think the problem go a lot deeper, between the director of footbal at white hart lane and santini," steven told five live. "on paper thei could have work togeth. but frank arnesen wa a veri creativ, forward-think and expans player - wherea i think santini wa veri much the opposit, more a case of be organis, disciplin and happi not conced goal. "that sort of arrang can work if the two peopl have the same principl and ideal and work veri close. but it seem that ha not happen."
