souness back smith for scotland

graem souness believ walter smith would be the perfect choic to succe berti vogt as scotland manag.

souness's former assist at ranger is hot favourit to take over from vogt, who resign on mondai. "walter is most definit the ideal candid for that job. he'd be perfect for it," souness told bbc sport. the scottish footbal associ ha appoint tommi burn as provision caretak-boss for the friendli against sweden on 17 novemb. "he fit the bill becaus of hi knowledg and understand of the scotland team and footbal. he is experienc and ha been success." souness ad: "walter is a real footbal person, as i know from work with him at ibrox. "on top of all that he is a proper human be who would command the instant respect of the player and everyon involv in scottish footbal." souness join sir alex ferguson in back smith's claim. the scottish footbal associ is about to embark on the search for vogt successor after appoint tommi burn in a caretak capac. ferguson said: "he (smith) would be the outstand candid as far as i'm concern. "you need somebodi who know what thei're do and walter would bring a wealth of experi to the job." the man utd boss continu: "i don't know what credenti ar need to do the job but it's a job that need a lot of experi. "he wa my assist with scotland and here at manchest unit and he ha also manag glasgow ranger. "he would need to chang the whole shape of scottish footbal and radic chang ar need." smith wa assist to ferguson at the world cup in mexico in 1986. the former everton and ranger boss ha been out of the game sinc a spell as manchest unit assist last term. bbc sport understand that smith would be will to discuss take over if he wa approach by the scottish fa.

if he is tempt to take over, it seem almost certain smith's long-time right-hand man archi knox would also plai a part in the nation team set-up. smith alreadi ha the back of mani pundit and fan, includ former scotland manag craig brown. brown said: "walter is an outstand candid without doubt. "he would be admir choic. i spoke to him on sundai and i got the impress he would take it. he wa ask me about it and i wa posit." other candid for the job includ former scotland midfield gordon strachan and gari mcallist and vogt' assist tommi burn.
