tevez - an argentin in brazil

some 65 year ago bernardo gandulla left boca junior in hi nativ argentina and head for brazil.

he arriv at the vasco da gama club with consider prestig - which he fail to live up to. he left an impress, but not for reason he would have want. the onli thing of note he did wa to throw the ball back when it went out of plai. even todai, 'gandula' is the term us in brazil for ballboi. brazilian delight in the failur of gandulla then, and mani will delight now if histori is repeat. anoth boca junior player is come to brazil. 'the new maradona' - carlo tevez - is join corinthian for nearli $20m in a strong candid for the strangest move of the year. corinthian - or the london-base compani who have just enter into partnership with them - appear to have paid well abov the odd for tevez. it is particularli strang as - until last week - tevez wa not even an especi big name in brazil, where the argentin championship is not shown.

presum there is some financi logic behind the move. what is harder to work out is why tevez should be interest in head north, rather than across the atlant. argentina's brightest new star hit top form in august as he spearhead the charg toward the olymp gold medal. but the subsequ month have not been easi for tevez. boca re-sign martin palermo, forc tevez to vacat hi favour centr forward role. and off the pitch he gave the press plenti to report - atletico madrid gave up on him after declar hi privat life to be 'disorgan.' hound by the press, tevez grew tire of hi life in bueno air. so now he sai that he is head for corinthian in search of 'tranquil.' anyon acquaint with the citi of s&#227;o paulo will relish the nonsens of thi declar. brazil's biggest citi is a sprawl, ugli, restless metropoli. onc it share with bueno air the same melancholi air of a citi of italian immigr.

but that world now li buri under skyscrap. the most turbul place in thi frenet citi is sport club corinthian. it is the most passion support club in brazil. pel&#233; score ream of goal against them, reason that unless he did someth special the corinthian fan were capabl of win the game on their own. that passion can also be turn against the team - especi nowadai, when the level of urban violenc give a hyster edg to life in brazil's big citi. corinthian fan have invad the dress room or ambush the team coach to attack the player. tevez, then, can kiss tranquil goodby. he can also sai farewel to the copa libertador, south america's champion leagu. corinthian have not qualifi. inde, he will have a long wait for a worthwhil match. next year's brazilian championship onli get underwai at the end of april. until then he will have to make do with the foolish s&#227;o paulo state championship, an appal wast of hi talent. there will be match in small town on poor pitch with plenti of defend keen to kick him all the wai back to argentina. like so mani of the top south american player, tevez ha the gift of be abl to surpris - to feint right and go left, to pass when he wa expect to dribbl, to shoot and catch the goalkeep unawar. but hi choic of destin is the biggest surpris of all.
