can smith work scottish wonder?

the worst kept secret in scottish footbal wa reveal on thursdai when walter smith wa name as the new nation manag.

from the moment berti vogt' miser tenur in charg of scotland end, the former ranger and everton boss ha been the overwhelm favourit for the post. but is smith the man for what must be on of the hardest job in footbal? the 56-year-old take over at a time when the nation side is in the doldrum. scotland have not reach a major final sinc the world cup in 1998 and reach germani 2006 look near imposs, have pick up just two point from the open three game in the qualifi race. and the fifa rank see scotland list at an all time low of 77th, below the like of estonia, ghana, angola and thailand. scotland ar not bless with qualiti player with experi at the top level, so smith will have to get the best out of meagr resourc. smith's track record make impress read and he is wide respect within the game. the man who wa alex ferguson's assist when scotland plai at the 1986 world cup won seven leagu titl with ranger. and hi appoint ha been wide endors by mani of the game' top name, includ ferguson and graem souness, who took him to ibrox as hi assist in 1986. charact like souness, ferguson and current ibrox manag alex mcleish all cite smith's experi and hi expans knowledg of the scottish game.

much wa made of vogt' inabl to express himself to the player and media. that will certainli not be the case with smith. the former dunde unit and dumbarton full-back is from the manageri old school - straight talk and never slow to let player know when he expect better (often with the us of some colour invect). but it should be rememb vogt came to scotland with an impress curriculum vita - a world cup winner as a player and a european championship winner as a manag. smith will inherit the same problem vogt had - a callow squad of player with no except talent. and it remain to be seen if smith will experi the rash of call-off that blight so much of vogt' prepar work. a fresh start for the scottish nation team wa imper and smith is wide regard as a safe pair of hand. but will a safe pair of hand be enough when the adroit hand of a magician might be requir...
