reaction from spanish press

england's 1-0 defeat to spain on wednesdai domin the back and front page of the countri's press on thursdai.

controversi wa in no short suppli, with racist abus of england's black player, wayn roonei's petul and england's inept perform. but what did the spanish press make of the affair? bbc sport look at the reaction. 

 

there is littl coverag of the racist chant on wednesdai night's game. but as doe cover the english reaction to the pre-match comment from spain coach lui aragon, who highlight britain's coloni past when probe about hi own remark regard thierri henri in octob. journalist guillem balagu write: "in our countri, where multi-cultur is a new thing, we ar in nappi deal with these thing, and have a naiveti which make the english nervou."

marca refer in pass to the boo of england's black player - but onli after refer to the cheer of "ol" which greet the long period of spanish possess. aragon' "no comment" to question about racism after the match is also highlight, as marca focus on the spanish coach's prais for hi player. serbia & montenegro's 2-0 world cup qualifi win in belgium - which could make qualif tougher for spain - seem to be of greater import.

elsewher, the spanish media criticis it english counterpart for stoke up the racism issu. "were there racist chant against some player? thi hasn't happen in the spanish leagu and spain for mani year," said spanish feder press offic fernando garrido. "so you (english report) should ask yourselv what you have done to contribut to all thi." and spanish daili abc accus english report of launch a witch-hunt against aragon. "perhap it wa becaus their team had plai so poorli and thei want to divert attent toward thi muddl issu," the paper sai. 

 

"what the boi in the bernabeu did wa odd... roonei seem intent to kick ani spanish player who approach him." yet roonei is seen onli as the worst exampl of mani england miscreant, with gari nevil criticis for continu the feud between manchest unit and arsen for hi tackl on jose rey. ashlei cole's treatment of joaquin, and a frank lampard foul on rey ar also lambast for their "ugli".

marca's headlin sai it all: "wayn roonei se volvi&#243; loco en el bernab&#233;u (wayn roonei becam crazi in the bernabeu)" roonei's displai alarm the writer, in particular three "chill" foul on joaquin, casilla and marchena, which "could well have left them in the infirmari." and like as, marca criticis gari nevil for "leav a messag on rey' ankl" to remind him of the manchest unit-arsen clash thi month. 

 

spain's first-half perform is shower with prais, with xavi singl out as the biggest star. "xavi did thing on wednesdai which were worthi of maradona," the paper beam, ad, "what a work-rate, what dynam, what vision, what leadership, what a midfield player!" on a controversi even, as offer on seemingli undeni viewpoint: "spanish footbal player plai better footbal than the english."

more plaudit ar given to the home team, with jaim varga laud the manner in which "spain domin england with order and qualiti". the paper add: "the bad thing about spain v england wa that it last onli 65 minut after which a success of chang prevent ani real competit." varga doe not mention england's two galactico, simpli ad in a ps: "i have not forgotten to speak of beckham and owen. thei forgot to plai."
