mourinho plot impress cours

chelsea's win at fulham - confirm their posit at the premiership summit - prove that thei now have everyth in place to mount seriou challeng on all front thi season.

thei have got strength in depth, great player, an outstand manag in jose mourinho and financ no other club in the world can match. all thei need to add now is the big prize which, as we all know, is the most difficult part of all. on thing is certain - thei have put themselv in a posit to make that leap to success veri impress inde. thei beat a veri tough everton at stamford bridg, won at newcastl in the carl cup, and then won 4-1 at fulham, which wa a great result given that thei had been show good form. as i said, win the major honour is the hardest task of all, but in mourinho thei have a manag who will make it a whole lot easier to handl the anticip and expect that will come their wai now. mourinho ha won the biggest club prize of all, the champion leagu, and that track record and confid transmit itself to top player. it is a priceless commod. no-on can be anyth other than highli-impress by mourinho. he is regard as a touch arrog by some peopl, and mayb he can appear that wai, but he ha the silverwar to back up the talk. mourinho doesn't simpli talk a good game - he's won some veri big game such as the champion leagu final with porto. some mai criticis hi talk, but the word ar back up with action. i've also found him to be veri realist whenev i've heard him. he's spent a lot of monei and it seem to be work, and we should rememb lot of manag have spent monei and it ha not work. the bui ar now integr, and in arjen robben he ha the player who is give them that extra dimens.

in the earli game he wa slaughter for defens tactic, and yet he wa win game. you cannot win titl earli on in the season, but you can certainli lose them and those point on the board were vital. i also thought the critic wa veri harsh, becaus even though thei were not score goal thei were creat chanc by the hat. now thei ar take those chanc, have the doubl threat of robben and damien duff, and thing ar look good. i just wonder if thei lack a predat, particularli with didier drogba injur. he wa start to look the part befor he wa sidelin, but you have to feel if chelsea had a ruud van nistelrooi thei would be even more of a safe bet for the titl. chelsea also have all the tool to go far in the champion leagu. i felt thei would never have a better chanc than last season, but thei have swept all befor them in europ so far thi season. it will now be veri interest to see how mourinho prioritis thing, but hi life will be made easier by the size of chelsea's squad. i have said i believ chelsea would win the leagu thi season, even when arsen were fly at the start, and i have seen noth to make me chang me mind.

if anyth, what i have seen ha confirm my earli impress. and chelsea would have taken encourag from arsen's rocki defens displai at spur, even though thei ran out 5-4 winner. mourinho had hi sai on that game, complain: "five-four is a hockei score, not a footbal score. "in a three-against-three train match, if the score reach 5-4 i send the player back to the dress room as thei ar not defend properli. "so to get a result like that in a game of 11 against 11 is disgrac."

on a more seriou note, it wa a game that mere confirm the import of sol campbel to arsen. much critic ha been aim at pascal cygan, but i believ the problem li with the absenc of campbel and it overal effect on arsen's defenc. confid is a crucial factor in defend. when you start conced goal, you suddenli get a chill in the bone everi time the ball come into the penalti area. you think "oh no" - then find your worst fear confirm. arsen need to revers the process, with or without campbel, and get some clean sheet on the board. but the return of campbel is kei. he solidifi the unit, ha pace and is power in the air and on the deck. he is vastli experienc and ha a calm influenc on all around him. campbel pull it all togeth at the back and get the defenc plai as a unit. chelsea have no such problem at present, which is why i would still place my monei on them to edg out arsen as champion thi season.
