mcclaren hail boro's uefa spirit

middlesbrough boss steve mcclaren ha prais the wai hi side have got to grip with european footbal after the 2-0 uefa cup win against lazio.

boro, who ar plai in europ for the first time in their 128-year histori, ar top of group e with maximum point. "i think we have taken to europ realli well," said mcclaren. "we got about lazio, didn't let them settl or plai. and in possess, we control it and look threaten everi time we went forward." befor the match, mcclaren had said that a win over the italian giant would put boro firmli on the european footbal map. and after thei did just that he said: "it wa a perfect european night. for the team to give the fan a perform like that wa the ic on the cake. "there have been mani good perform but thi wa someth special.

"you can see that the experi we have in the squad is show. to win in europ you need to defend well, and we have done that becaus we have conced onli on goal in four game. "we can also score goal, and again that is someth you can see from the perform we have had, so we have good balanc. mcclaren's onli critic of hi side wa that their domin should have been result in more goal. "it should have been more convinc," said mcclaren. "but i had watch lazio in recent week and i saw them score a late equalis against inter milan on saturdai so i knew we need a second goal.

"no matter what anybodi sai, lazio ar favourit to win thi competit." middlesbrough forward boudewijn zenden said he did not expect such a comfort match after he score both goal. "we didn't expect it to be that on-side," said zenden. "we did quit well in the first half, we pressur them and thei didn't cope with that. "i think we plai quit well and it wa a veri good game, especi in the first half." the holland intern said boro ar confid of progress in the competit after win their first two group game. "we've got a veri good feel, there is a good spirit, all the lad work hard for each other and it's a squad of friendli player, which i think you can see on the pitch," he ad.
