benitez delight after crucial win

liverpool manag rafael benitez admit victori against deportivo la coruna wa vital in their tight champion leagu group.

jorg andrad's earli own goal gave liverpool a 1-0 win. and benitez said: "we start at a veri high tempo and had mani chanc. it is a veri import win for us and we could have score more goal. "we were veri good defens and also good on the counter attack. we ar pleas but move on to the next game." igor biscan wa outstand in midfield after replac injur xabi alonso, and benitez said: "he plai veri well. "it is import to have all the player readi and a good squad so you can plai more game at a high level." benitez ad: "it is all back in our own hand now, it wa a great win for us and i wa delight with what i feel wa the best liverpool i have seen. "as far as my feel about win in spain, that is realli not import. "i want to see us win awai match in the champion leagu, that it wa in spain wa not my first consider. "as far as i am concern it is import for liverpool to win, it is not import in what countri it is in." benitez ad: benitez said: "we had a problem befor the start, it wa decid that xabi could not plai more than 45 minut. "but in the end becaus of the wai that (dietmar) hamann and (igor) biscan perform, we did not need to chang thing until right at the end of the match. "depor ar a good team and if you allow them to keep possess thei can be veri danger inde. "but we knew that if we hit them on the counter-attack it would make them nervou, and that is how it work out." deportivo coach javier irureta said: "liverpool plai veri well and we just could not break them down. "i know we have now gone six game at home in europ without score, but that doe not reflect our overal perform. "but thi time we did not plai well and we lack imagin. "the goal wa a bad mistak and a big blow to our confid. player who usual want the ball at that stage did not want it. "i know we ar bottom of the group, but as long as there is hope of qualifi, we will hang on to that."
