wenger keep faith with almunia

arsen wenger ha pledg to keep faith with stand-in keeper manuel almunia for the crunch week which could defin arsen's season.

almunia will start tuesdai's champion leagu group tie against rosenborg and is like to face chelsea on sundai. wenger said: "you don't think i would take out on goalkeep for just on game, do you? i don't do that. "i have to give him a run for a few game. it's just that i don't want to make thi stori bigger than it is." wenger insist he ha complet faith in the 27-year-old spaniard, who wa sign last summer from celta vigo as back-up to jen lehmann.

"if you look at my career, you will see that i have left mani big player out for a long time. i've done it with denni bergkamp, kanu, everybodi. "it's becaus it's a goalkeep, that's all. it's a usual situat for me. you put your best team out, no matter who it is. "for me, it wa not a big mistak at old trafford and i wasn't alarm by what happen against birmingham either. "it's noth against lehmann. i think he's a great keeper, as is almunia. you can onli plai on of them. "these peopl ar not robot - thei have good period and less good period. just becaus lehmann doesn't plai for two or three week, or longer or shorter, it doesn't mean i've lost faith in him."

but former arsen keeper david seaman believ lehmann ha been harshli treat. seaman told the daili mail: "jen is a fantast keeper. he deserv anoth chanc. "he ha made a few mistak but on form he deserv to be the first-team choic." with arsen hit by injuri and suspens, inexperienc midfield pair of mathieu flamini and cesc fabrega will line up against rosenborg but wenger is confid thei will prove more than capabl. "it put a lot of pressur on them but it's a good learn process," said wenger. "i'm not worri as thei ar both mental strong and will put in the need workrat."

the gunner go into the game boost by the new that defend sol campbel is on the verg of sign a new deal with the club. and the 30-year-old, whose current contract run out in the summer, ha made it clear he is determin to achiev champion leagu success with arsen. campbel said: "it mean a lot to me to go through, it's everyth. we want to carri on in thi competit. "that's where the best team in europ ar. to be in there, plai against these gui and try to win the trophi, is the first thing in my mind."

meanwhil, thierri henri believ he will be blame if arsen fail to qualifi for the next stage of the champion leagu. henri will captain the side in place of the suspend patrick vieira as the gunner seek the requir victori over rosenborg. and the striker said: "if we don't win and we go out of the competit, like it or not, it's go to be my fault. that's the wai it is. "if the team don't win i know i will be criticis, no matter how i plai."
