houllier prais benitez regim

former liverpool manag gerard houllier ha prais the work of hi anfield successor rafael benitez.

houllier wa angri at report that he ha been critic of benitez sinc the spaniard took over at liverpool. but houllier told bbc sport: "in privat and in public, i have stress i believ rafa is do a good job. he is the right man at the right place. "rafa is a good coach and a good man. i've spoken to him sinc he ha been at liverpool and never criticis him." houllier also reveal he is now readi to return to the game after leav liverpool in mai follow six year at anfield.

the former franc boss ha been link with a host of job and pull out of the race to succe mark hugh as wale nation coach. he ha been work for uefa, cover the premiership for french televis and also coach in brazil with nation coach carlo alberto perreira. houllier said: "if a good club come up at the right time then ye, i am readi to come back. "it ha been interest to watch game from a differ perspect and i have learn thing. "i have been involv in footbal sinc leav liverpool and my batteri ar recharg."

houllier ha been impress with the qualiti in the premiership after watch as a pundit - particularli with jose mourinho's work at leader chelsea. he said: "chelsea ar do veri well. thei have some veri good creativ player in damien duff and arjen robben and didier drogba show he can chang the face of a game when he came on against newcastl. "thei have got a good team spirit and ar strong mental. thei have shown thei can cope with all the pressur put on them becaus of the expect and cope well with jose's principl. "jose had result befor he came to chelsea and i think he will have an impact in the premiership becaus he manag hi team veri cleverli." and houllier, awai from hi brief at liverpool, ha been huge impress with the premiership. he said: "it is a veri excit leagu. it is entertain, goal ar score and team ar alwai try to win. "it ha been veri interest to watch the game from a differ perspect. "game switch from end-to-end and there is more pace to the premiership than other leagu. it is a veri good product."
