mourinho to escap fa charg

chelsea boss jose mourinho will not face ani footbal associ action over the comment he made after their carl cup tie with manchest unit.

mourinho intim that unit boss sir alex ferguson influenc refere neal barri after the duo walk down the tunnel togeth at half-time. but an fa spokesman told bbc sport: "we ar not take action over mourinho. "we have look at the comment and we have decid that no further action is requir. that is the end of it." mourinho wa concern that ferguson's convers with barri wa follow by an inconsist displai by the offici. "i see on refere in the first half and anoth in the second," said mourinho. "if the fa ask me what happen, i will tell them. what i saw and felt made it easier to understand a few thing.

"mayb when i turn 60 and have been manag in the same leagu for 20 year and have the respect of everybodi i will have the power to speak to peopl and make them trembl a littl bit. "the refere control the game in on wai dure the first half but in the second thei had dozen of free-kick. it wa fault after fault, dive after dive. "but i know the refere did not walk to the dress room alon at half-time. he should onli have had hi two assist and the fourth offici with him, but there wa also someon els." refere chief keith hackett believ mourinho should retract hi comment about ferguson and barri as he believ the blue boss ha question their integr. "i'm hope he might reconsid hi comment, unfortun thi is the natur of the game," said hackett. "i don't want refere or myself get in the psycholog warfar between two manag. for the second leg we have an experienc refere, and we should be talk about the qualiti of that game rather than the refere. "sometim manag have ground for comment, and i note that, but a refere integr ha been question, that is offens and should be avoid. mr mourinho should look at the fact." mourinho ad that the match wa entertain for a goalless draw and insist hi team could still reach the final. "it's 0-0, so if we win we go through and if we get a draw we go to extra time," he said. "we have exactli the same chanc we had befor thi game. "we ar confid of get a result but we know what manchest unit is, a footbal power. it'll be difficult for us, but also for them."
