wolv appoint hoddl as manag

glenn hoddl ha been unveil as the new wolv manag.

the ex-england coach ha been given a six-month contract to succe dave jone, who wa sack after the club's poor start to the season. wolv chairman rick hayward said: "we're delight glenn is here. he ha a six-month contract so we can test each other out and see if it work." hoddl, who will work alongsid stuart grai, ha been out of the game sinc he wa sack by spur in 2003. grai, who ha been caretak manag, wa assist boss when hoddl wa manag at southampton. "i'm delight to be here," said hoddl.

"i saw the massiv potenti that wolv have got and their desir and amibit to get back into the premiership parallel my ambit. "stuart grai ha done a fantast job as caretak manag. we've work togeth at southampton and i'm delight to be back with him." wolv chief execut jez moxei defend the decis to give hoddl a short-term contract. "we hope it will work out for both parti and we extend it for the long term," he said. "most manag want a four-year contract and then expect it to be paid off if it doesn't work out. "for somebodi of glenn's calibr to come in on a short-term contract and put hi reput on the line, it demonstr hi commit and self-belief and the potenti he think is here." hayward reveal that hoddl wa on of the first to be approach after jone' departur. "he wa not avail at the time becaus he wa look at variou other thing," he explain. "five week later we're back on track and thi a tremend opportun for wolv."

hoddl began hi manageri career as player-boss with swindon befor move on to chelsea and then take up the england job. hi spell in charg of the nation side came to an end after the 1998 world cup when he made controversi remark about the disabl in a newspap interview. the 47-year-old later return to manag with southampton, where he again succeed jone - as he ha now done at wolv. he engin an upturn in saint' fortun befor be lure to white hart lane by tottenham - the club where he made hi name as a player. that relationship turn sour at the start of the last campaign and he left the london club earli last season. sinc then he ha appli unsuccessfulli for the post of franc manag and had also been link with a return to southampton. wolv ar current 17th in the championship and have a home game against millwal on tuesdai.
