wenger step up row

arsen wenger ha step up hi feud with sir alex ferguson by claim the manchest unit manag is guilti of bring footbal into disreput.

the pair's long-run row wa put back in the headlin on saturdai when ferguson said hi arsen counterpart wa "a disgrac". wenger initi refus to bite back, sai onli: "i will never answer ani question ani more about thi man." but now he claim ferguson should be punish by the footbal associ. the latest twist in the ferguson-wenger saga came on saturdai when the unit boss, in an interview with the independ newspap, discuss the event after the game between the two side in octob. unit won 2-0 that dai, at old trafford, but the game wa follow by a now notori food fight which saw ferguson's cloth cover in soup and pizza. the side meet again at highburi on 1 februari. "in the tunnel wenger wa criticis my player, call them cheat, so i told him to leav them alon and behav himself," ferguson said on saturdai. "he ran at me with hand rais sai 'what do you want to do about it?' "to not apologis for the behaviour of the player to anoth manag is unthink. it's a disgrac, but i don't expect wenger to ever apologis, he's that type of person."

those alleg were put to wenger after saturdai's game at bolton, which arsen lost to slip 10 point behind chelsea in the titl race. at first he said onli: "i've alwai been consist with that stori and told you noth happen. "if he ha to talk, he talk. if he want to make a newspap articl, he make a newspap articl. "he doesn't interest me and doesn't matter to me at all. i will never answer to ani provoc from him ani more. "he doe what he like in england anywai. he can go abroad on dai and see how it is." but later on saturdai, accord to the independ, wenger spoke to a smaller group of report and expand on hi reaction. "i have no diplomat relat with him," the arsen boss is quot as sai. "what i don't understand is that he doe what he want and you (the press) ar all at hi feet.

"the situat (concern the food fight) ha been judg and there is a game go on in a month. "the manag have a respons to protect the game befor the game. but in england you ar onli punish for what you sai after the game. "now the whole stori start again. i don't go into that game. we plai footbal. i am a footbal manag and i love footbal abov all ... no matter what peopl sai." remind that ferguson call him "a disgrac", wenger ad: "i don't respond to anyth. in england you have a good phrase. it is 'bring the game into disreput'. "but that is not onli after a game, it is as well befor a game."

ferguson had also claim that unit chief execut david gill and arsen vice-chairman david dein had agre at boardroom level not to discuss the incid in public. but ferguson ad: "in the ensu week all you got wa a diatrib from arsen about be kick off the pitch and all that nonsens. gill phone dein three time to complain but noth wa done. "the return is on 1 februari and thei will come out with anoth diatrib. "david gill and i feel we should set the record straight becaus arsen have not written to us to apologis and we would not let that happen here." meanwhil, the leagu manag associ have offer to act as peacemak in the hope of resolv the on-go row. dure that stormi game in octob, unit striker ruud van nistelrooi caught arsen's ashlei cole with on particularli strong tackl. wenger later accus van nistelrooi of "cheat" and wa fine £15,000 and "sever reprimand" by the footbal associ. ferguson admit on saturdai that van nistelrooi's tackl, which earn the dutchman a ban, "could have given (cole) a seriou injuri", but he believ arsen were the main aggressor.

"wenger is alwai complain the match wa not plai in the right spirit," he ad. "thei ar the worst loser of all time, thei don't know how to lose. mayb it is just manchest unit, thei don't lose mani game to other team. "we tend to forget the worst disciplinari record of all time wa arsen's up until last season. in fair it ha improv and now thei ar seen as paragon of virtu. "but to wenger it never happen, it is all some dream or nightmar."
