man utd through after exet test

manchest unit avoid an fa cup upset by edg past exet citi in their third round replai.

cristiano ronaldo score the open, slip the ball between paul jone' leg after just nine minut. unit wast a host of chanc to make it safe as jone made some great save, but wayn roonei put the tie beyond doubt late on with a cool finish. exet had chanc of their own, sean devin twice vollei wide and andrew taylor forc tim howard to save. unit boss sir alex ferguson wa take few chanc after their 0-0 draw in the first game and he hand start to paul schole and ryan as well as ronaldo and roonei. exet began brightli with devin and steve flack see plenti of the ball, but it did not take unit long to assert their author and the host soon found themselv a goal down. schole plai a love pass in to ronaldo on the left-hand side of the six-yard box and the portugues winger slid the ball between the leg of jone to open the score.

unit sens a chanc to finish the tie as a contest earli on and ronaldo blaze over befor jone save well from schole and then roonei. the visitor' pressur by now wa incess and roonei had anoth shot block while ronaldo slam well over the bar again from a good posit. just befor the break gigg had a golden chanc to doubl the advantag, but the welshman drag a left-foot effort badli wide from 10 yard. in stoppag time exet creat their best chanc as alex jeannin swung in a cross from the left that devin manag to flick goalward, but the ball flew wide of howard's goal. the grecian came out after the break in determin fashion and howard had to show safe hand to collect two search cross into the unit box. roonei look like he might have seal the result with a turn and shot but the ball stuck in the st jame park mud and jone race back to gather on the goallin. moment later devin had the chanc to make himself a hero, but he could onli vollei jeannin's brilliant cross wide of howard's goal after be left unmark six yard out. after roonei had complet mess up a free-kick 20 yard out taylor show him how it should be done, hi stun drive from distanc forc a fly stop from howard. the home crowd were bai for a goal and thei did get the ball into the net onli for devin's low effort to be rule out for an obviou offsid. the persist roonei eventu round jone with three minut to go and slot into an empti net to book a home tie with middlesbrough in the fourth round.

jone, hilei, sawyer, gaia, jeannin, moxei, taylor (martin 89), ampadu (af 69), clai, flack (edward 74), devin. sub not us: rice, todd.

ampadu, clai.

howard, phil nevil, gari nevil, o'shea, fortun, gigg (saha 70), miller (fletcher 66), schole, djemba-djemba (silvestr 80), ronaldo, roonei. sub not us: ricardo, bellion.

ronaldo 9, roonei 87.

9,033.

p dowd (staffordshir).
