liverpool pledg to keep gerrard

liverpool chief execut rick parri insist the club will never sell steven gerrard amid report chelsea will renew their bid to lure him from anfield.

gerrard reiter hi desir to win trophi with the red after hi superb champion leagu winner on wednesdai. and parri ha move to scotch claim that chelsea could launch a £35m bid. "there is no chanc of stevi go in januari," said parri. "that just won't happen. our intent is that we will never let him go." gerrard score a spectacular late goal to give liverpool a 3-1 win over olympiako and book their place in the knockout stage. "of cours he is ambiti but so ar we," parri ad. "we firmli believ that if we can satisfi hi ambit he will remain a liverpool player. "we have an open and straightforward relationship. we both know where we stand and that plai a big part in hi decis to stai last summer. if he wa not so commit to liverpool he would have gone by now." gerrard had said befor wednesdai's game he would consid leav if the club wa knock out of europ, with real madrid also believ to be monitor hi situat.

"the main point i have made is i want to be in a liverpool side which challeng for the champion leagu and the titl all the time," he said afterward. "i want to be win thing with liverpool, not somewher els. "i am a fan as well and i think what i have said the support will agre with. "we have to build on win like that, not just settl for a great win and then not progress ani further. "my goal wa on of the most import i have ever score and i hope it turn out to be on of the most import for the club for a long time. "i know i put a lot of pressur on myself becaus of what i said, and i felt i need a big perform, but i am not go to go around tell li about how i feel."

red manag rafael benitez believ gerrard can win everyth he want to without move club. "steven can win all he want with us and we need him. he ha seen that we have a good team and we can do more thing in the futur," said benitez. "but if we want to win more game, import game, we need steven in the team. "we need hi strength, the strong mental he ha and hi qualiti. i think he like and want the respons of lead thi team."
