chelsea hold arsen

a grip game between arsen and chelsea end with the honour finish even at highburi.

thierri henri produc a sublim strike to put arsen ahead but john terri level with a power header. henri's quickli-taken free-kick put arsen back in front but eidur gudjohnsen equalis with a header from william galla' knockback. henri miss a golden chanc when he blaze a shot high late on and arsen also had a penalti appeal reject. henri's open had given arsen the perfect start and set up an enthral affair. the french striker head a long cesc farega ball back to jose antonio rey from the edg of the chelsea area and immedi saw it head back into hi path from the spaniard. and, with hi back to goal, henri finish with aplomb when he took on touch, turn and struck an angl strike past the despair dive of keeper petr cech. henri epitomis a determin about the arsen side but chelsea appear unruffl and equalis after 16 minut.

gunner keeper manuel almunia, who got the nod ahead of jen lehmann, did well to save a well-struck frank lampard shot. but he could not keep out terri's power header from the result corner as arsen's weak at set-piec wa again expos. almost immedi, henri went close and chelsea gather the loos ball befor go straight up the other end where gudjohnsen fluf an effort. gudjohnsen did not make the same error minut later when he struck a sweet shot onli for almunia to be equal to the task and save. the home side regain the lead in controversi fashion when robert pire won a dubiou free-kick. and, given the option to take the 25-yard set-piec quickli, henri curl in a shot with cech still organis hi wall.

thi time arsen did not allow chelsea to level so soon as thei went into the break ahead. chelsea brought striker didier drogba on to partner gudjohnsen up front after the interv and the move reap immedi reward. lampard swung in a cross which galla knock back across goal and a deft header from gudjohnsen level matter again. chelsea's main threat wa come from cross and lampard miss a great opportun as he head wide when left unmark at the far post. the second half fail to live up to the thrill pace of the open period but there were flash of brillianc. on of them came from the enigmat robben when he jink hi wai through two arsen defend onli to see hi poke shot save by almunia.

arsen end the match the stronger and work a excel chanc for henri who put a left-foot shot high from eight yard. subtitut robin van persi could also have nick a win for the highburi outfit but frustratingli sidefoot just wide. matthieu flamini had a late penal appeal wave awai befor the final whistl which maintain chelsea five-point premiership lead over arsen.

almunia, lauren, tour, campbel, cole, pire, flamini, fabrega, rey (clichi 82), bergkamp (van persi 82), henri. sub not us: sendero, hoyt, lehmann.

cole.

henri 2, 29.

cech, paulo ferreira, ricardo carvalho (drogba 45), terri, galla, duff, tiago (bridg 45), makelel, lampard, robben, gudjohnsen (parker 77). sub not us: kezman, cudicini.

robben, drogba, lampard.

terri 17, gudjohnsen 46.

38,153

g poll (hertfordshir).
