bate seal takeov

ken bate ha complet hi takeov of leed unit.

the 73-year-old former chelsea chairman seal the deal at 0227 gmt on fridai, and ha bought a 50% stake in the club. he said: "i'm delight to be step up to the mantel at such a fantast club. i recognis leed as a great club that ha fallen on hard time. "we have a lot of hard work ahead to get the club back where it belong in the premiership, and with the help of our fan we will do everyth we can." bate bought hi stake under the guis of a geneva-base compani known as the forward sport fund. he reveal that part of hi plan is to bui back leed' elland road stadium and thorp arch train ground in due cours.

"it's go to be a tough jon and the first task is to stabilis the cash flow and sort out the remain creditor," bate ad. "but there is light at the end of a veri long tunnel. for the past year it ha been a matter of firefight - now we can start run the club again." outgo leed chairman gerald krasner said: "thi deal ensur the medium to long term surviv of the club and i believ mr bate' propos ar total for the benefit of the club. "we ar content that under mr bate, leed unit will continu to consolid and move forward. "when we took over leed unit in march 2004, the club had a debt of £103m, sinc that date, my board ha succeed in reduc the debt to under £25m. "we work tirelessli to solv all of the problem at leed unit. "eighti percent of the problem have alreadi been overcom and we came to thi agreement with mr bate to secur it ongo success." krasner reveal that hi consortium ha been ask to remain in the background at the club for an undisclos period to help ensur a smooth hand-over. he will stai on in an unpaid capac while peter lorim will continu in hi role as director and point of contact for the fan and peter mccormick will serv as a consult to the incom board. the other outgo director have agre to leav their loan of £4.5m in the compani for the next four year. on leed' new-look board it is understood that lorim will be join by former chelsea financ director yvonn todd and bate' lawyer mark taylor.

krasner refus to give ani detail of the financ involv in the takeov. he told bbc five live: "i am not go into the figur. if ken want to give them up that is up to him. i can not tell you what the monei will be us for. "thi dea l is not about monei for the current board. in the last four month i never saw ani chequ until thi week from on person. i am not stretch figur, we don't discuss intern arrang." bate step down as chelsea chairman in march last year follow roman abramovich's £140m takeov at stamford bridg. in mai, he made a propos to invest £10m in sheffield wednesdai, but thi wa reject by the club. sebastien sainsburi had been close to a takeov of leed but withdrew hi £25m offer last week.

hi effort fail after he reveal it would take £40m to stage a takeov, and that the club will also lose £10m over the next six month. the club wa on the brink of administr - and the deduct of 10 point by the footbal leagu - befor bate' arriv but hi invest ha spare them that prospect.
