anelka apologis for critic

manchest citi striker nicola anelka ha issu an apolog for criticis the ambit of the club.

anelka wa quot in a french newspap as sai he would like to plai in the champion leagu for a bigger club. but chairman john wardl said: "i've spoken to nicola and he's apologis for anyth that might have been mistakenli taken from the french press. "we ar a big club. nicola told me that he agre with me that we ar a big club." wardl wa speak at the club's annual gener meet, where he also confirm the club had not receiv ani bid for the former arsen and real madrid striker. the club still ow french club psg £5m from the purchas of anelka in mai 2002. he ha been link with a move to barcelona and liverpool, and red skipper steven gerrard also reveal he is an admir from hi time on loan at anfield. but wardl ad: "there's been no bid for nicola anelka. no-on ha come to me and said i would like to bui nicola anelka.

"if a bid come in for nicola anelka i will speak to the board and then speak to kevin keegan. "if there wa a bid and it wa a bid of substanc and worth take then between us we'd decid. "we still ow some monei on nicola which we have clear out, so it would have to be abov that." wardl did stress that the club wa not invit ani offer for england winger shaun wright-phillip. he ad: "i've no intent of sell shaun wright-phillip. "if someon come with a silli bid i'll have to discuss it. "but we're not put him on the shelf to sell. he is the heart and soul of thi club and ha hi heart and sole in thi club, and he would be veri upset if i put him in the shop window. "he wa an academi kid here, he's just sign a new four-year deal, i don't think he'd do that unless he want to plai for manchest citi footbal club." citi recent announc debt of £62m, but wardl confirm thei would try and find fund to bring in player in the januari transfer window. he said: "like kevin i'd like to see some player come in. we've got to see what we can do - whether it's a on a bosman or not. "we will try to be creativ to gener some fund. but mayb we have to start look at club like everton and bolton to see how thei have been deal in the transfer market and do a similar type of thing."
