bellami fine after row

newcastl have fine their welsh striker craig bellami two week' wage - about £80,000 - follow hi row with manag graem souness.

but bellami, 25, ha not been put on the transfer list, although he did not train with the first team on tuesdai. magpi chairman freddi shepherd told the newcastl even chronicl: "it is not about monei. it is about a player think he is bigger than thi club. "no individu is, be it the chairman, the manag or a player." souness drop bellami for sundai's game against arsen, claim the welshman had feign injuri after be ask to plai out of posit. "when i heard what the manag wa sai i wa in shock," bellami said. "i thought 'not onli ha he gone behind my back, he's ly'," he said in respons to souness' remark. and the wale intern refus to apologis. "i won't apologis becaus i have done noth wrong," he told the even chronicl. "there's no doubt about it, i am out of here." the difficult relationship between souness and bellami boil over at the weekend, and ha led to a war of word in the media.

bellami's claim that souness had li about the background to the bust-up wa strongli deni by shepherd, who accus the striker of "cheat" the club. "i wish to put the record straight regard the bellami situat," said shepherd. "craig walk off the train ground sai hi hamstr wa tight (on fridai), but what he fail to reveal wa that he had told other member of the squad befor train that he intend to feign injuri. "when graem discov thi he immedi order bellami to attend a meet in my offic. "at that meet bellami admit to graem and i that he had told the player that he wa go to "fake" an injuri in train and walk off. "he also agre at that meet to apologis to hi team-mate for hi behaviour. he didn't do thi which result in the action taken by the manag at the weekend, which i fulli support. "in my book thi is cheat on the club, the support, the manag and hi own team-mate. "he is paid extrem well and i consid hi behaviour to be total unaccept and total unprofession."

bellami's latest outburst would appear to make hi chanc of a first-team recal remot. but even befor newcastl said the player would not be sold, bellami insist he had no intent of hand in a transfer request. "i don't want the fan to think for on minut that i wouldn't plai for thi club," he said. "i'd plai anywher for thi club, even in goal. "it's a veri difficult situat for me at the moment but i'd never ask to leav thi club. "thi club mean so much to me. i couldn't do it becaus i know i couldn't come back here and plai against newcastl. it would hurt too much."
