campbel rescu arsen

sol campbel prove to be an unlik match-winner to earn arsen a hard-fought win at portsmouth.

the england defend lash home a 25-yard shot for hi first goal in 16 month to take arsen back into second spot, five point behind chelsea. but befor campbel score the best two chanc of the game fell to pompei striker ricardo fuller. in the first half he blast wide when clear, and hi control let him down in the second half when well place. portsmouth got plenti of bodi behind the ball to deni arsen space in the earli stage. but their mark wa slack at a corner and patrick vieira should have done better when the ball fell to him 16 yard out. a mistak by arjan de zeeuw let thierri henri in behind the pompei defenc on 17 minut but as he bore down on goal linvoi primu got in a save tackl. with just fuller as an out-and-out striker, portsmouth's shape made life difficult for arsen. but a delight touch by robin van persi gave henri a sight of goal, although the angl wa too tight for hi shot to troubl jami ashdown.

ashdown caus heart to flutter on 28 minut when he miss hi punch at a corner and kolo tour head just wide and, as arsen began to press, van persi blast over a good opportun after henri had set him up. henri took a quick return pass from vieira but ashdown wa out quickli to block, and there were some anxiou second for pompei as the ball ran loos befor matthew taylor clear. after plai second fiddl, portsmouth should have taken the lead on 34 minut. refere howard webb plai a good advantag to allow steve stone to send gari o'neil awai but, have shrug off tour, the pompei midfield plant hi shot wide from 10 yard. as half-time approach, henri teas a shot through a ruck of player and inch wide. at the other end, fuller broke clear but fail to hit the target as tour close him down.

fuller wa given the best chanc of the match so far on 48 minut when patrik berger's break and slip pass plai him clear. but a poor first touch lost him the opportun and even when he check back and went down under vieira's challeng, refere webb wa not interest. fuller paid the price when he gave wai on 55 minut to aiyegbeni yakubu, who return after six week out with a knee injuri. but it need alert reflex and safe handl from ashdown to cling on to van persi's shot as henri snif for scrap.

portsmouth were grow in confid and keeper manuel almunia had to stand hi ground to beat awai a power shot from berger. arsen were struggl to find their rhythm but took the lead through the unlik sourc of campbel. the england defend need littl invit as pompei back off to stride forward and lash a feroci shot past ashdown. arsen might have stretch their lead two minut later when mathieu flamini escap hi marker to flash a header wide from henri's free-kick. almunia went full length to grab berger's long-rang shot, while ashdown palm awai substitut denni bergkamp's shot.

ashdown, griffin, de zeeuw, primu, taylor, stone, o'neil, fay (berkov 83), berger, lualua, fuller (yakubu 55).

sub not us: hislop, quashi, ciss.

almunia, lauren, tour, campbel, cole, pire, flamini, vieira, clichi, van persi (bergkamp 68), henri.

sub not us: lehmann, fabrega, sendero, hoyt.

cole.

campbel 75.

20,170.

h webb (s yorkshir).
