robben and cole earn chelsea win

cheslea salvag a win against a battl portsmouth side just as it look like the premiership leader would have to settl for a point.

arjen robben curl in a late deflect left-foot shot from the right side of pompei's box to break the home side's brave resist. chelsea had been continu frustrat but joe cole ad a second with a 20-yard shot in injuri-time. nigel quashi had pompei's best chanc when hi effort wa tip over. the fratton park crowd were in good voic as usual and, even though portsmouth more than held their own, chelsea still manag to carv out two earli chanc. striker didier drogba snap in an angl shot to forc home keeper shaka hislop into a smart save while an unmark frank lampard had a strike block by arjan de zeeuw. but pompei chase, harri and unsettl a chelsea side as the south-coast side start to gain the upper hand and almost took the lead through quashi.

the midfield struck a swerv long rang shot which keeper petr cech tip over at full stretch. pompei stretch arsen to the limit recent and were provid a similarli tough obstacl to overcom for a chelsea team struggl to exert ani pressur. velimir zajec's player stood firm as the visitor came out in live fashion after the break but, just as thei took a stranglehold of the match, the visitor launch a counter-attack. drogba spun to get a sight of goal and struck a fierc shot which rock keeper hislop back as he block befor arjan de zeeuw clear the danger.

the home side were also left breath a sigh of relief when a glen johnson header fell to gudjohnsen who had hi back to goal in a crowd pompei goalmouth. the iceland forward tri to acrobat direct the ball into goal but put hi effort over. but, just like against arsen, portsmouth let in a late goal when robben's shot took a deflect off matthew taylor on it wai past a wrong-foot hislop. and cole put a bit of gloss on a hard-fought win when he put a low shot into the bottom of the pompei net.

hislop, griffin, primu, de zeeuw, taylor, stone (ciss 76), quashi (berkov 83), fay, o'neil, kamara (fuller 65), yakubu.

sub not us: berger, ashdown.

kamara.

cech, paulo ferreira, galla, terri, johnson, duff, makelel, smertin (cole 73), lampard, robben (geremi 81), drogba (gudjohnsen 58).

sub not us: cudicini, bridg.

paulo ferreira, robben, lampard.

robben 79, cole 90.

20,210

a wilei (staffordshir).
