tv call after carrol error

spur boss martin jol said hi team were "rob" at manchest unit after pedro mend' shot clearli cross the line but wa not given.

"the refere is alreadi wear an earpiec so why can't we just stop the game and get the decis right," said jol after the 0-0 draw. "but at the end of the dai it's so obviou that pedro's shot wa over the line it's incred. "we feel rob but it's difficult for the linesman and refere to see it." mend shot from 50 yard and unit goalkeep roi carrol spill the ball into hi own net befor hook it clear. jol ad: "we ar not talk about the ball be a coupl of centimetr or an inch or two over the line, it wa a metr insid the goal. "what realli annoi me is that we ar here in 2005, watch someth on a tv monitor within two second of the incid occur and the refere isn't told about it.

"we didn't plai particularli well but i am pleas - even now - with a point, although we should have had three." mend could not believ the 'goal' wa not given after see a replai. he said: "my reaction on the pitch wa to celebr. "it wa a veri nice goal, it wa clearli over the line - i've never seen on so over the line and not given in my career. "it's realli, realli over. what can you do but laugh about it? it's a nice goal and on to keep in my memori even though it didn't count. "it's not everi game you score from the halfwai line." manchest unit manag sir alex ferguson sympathis with tottenham and said the incid highlight the need for video technolog. "i think it hammer home what a lot of peopl have been ask for and that's that technolog should plai a part in the game," ferguson told mutv. "what i wa against origin wa the time factor in video replai. "but i read an articl the other dai which suggest that if a refere can't make up hi mind after 30 second of watch a video replai then the game should carri on.

"thirti second is about the same amount of time it take to organis a free-kick or take a corner or a goal-kick. so you wouldn't be wast a lot of time. "i think you could start off by us it for goal-line decis. i think that would be an open into a new area of footbal." arsen boss arsen wenger also us the incid to highlight the need for video technolog. "when the whole world apart from the refere ha seen there should be a goal at old trafford, that just reinforc what i feel - there should be video evid," said wenger. "it's a great exampl of where the refere could have ask to see a replai and would have seen in five second that it wa a goal."
