hodgson shoulder england blame

fly-half charli hodgson admit hi wayward kick plai a big part in england's 18-17 defeat to franc.

hodgson fail to convert three penalti and also miss a rel easi drop goal attempt which would have given england a late win. "i'm veri disappoint with the result and with my myself," hodgson said. "it is veri hard to take but it's someth i will have to get through and come back stronger. my train's been good but it just didn't happen." hodgson reveal that olli barklei had taken three penalti becaus thei were "out of my rang" but the centr could not convert hi opportun either, particularli the drop goal late on. "it wasn't a good strike," he ad. "i felt as soon as it hit my boot it had miss. it's veri disappoint, but i must recov." andi robinson said he would "keep work on the kick" with hi squad. howev, the england coach ad that he would take some posit from the defeat.

"we went out to plai and plai some veri good rugbi and what have franc done?" he said. "thei won the game from kick penalti from our 10m line. "it's veri frustrat. the lad show a lot of ambit in the first half, thei went out to sustain it in the second but couldn't build on it. "we took the ball into contact, and you know when you do that it is a lotteri whether the refere is go to give the penalti to your side or the other side. "we have lost a game we should have won. there is a fine line between win and lose, and for the second week we've been on the wrong side of that line and it hurt."

england went in at half-time with a 17-6 lead but thei fail to score in the second half and dimitri yachvili slot over four penalti as franc overhaul the deficit. england skipper jason robinson admit hi side fail to cope with franc's improv second-half displai.

"we control the game in the first half but we knew that thei would come out and try everyth after half-time," he said. "we made a lot of mistak in the second half and thei punish us. thei took their chanc when thei came. "it's veri disappoint. last week we lost by two point, now on point."
