vickeri out of six nation

england tight-head prop phil vickeri ha been rule out of the rest of the 2005 rb six nation after break a bone in hi right forearm.

vickeri wa injur as hi club side, gloucest, beat bath 17-16 in the west countri derbi on saturdai. he could be join on the sidelin by bath centr olli barklei, who sat out the derbi due to a leg injuri. barklei will have a scan on sundai and might miss england's trip to six nation leader ireland next weekend. the new is just the latest blow for coach andi robinson, who ha seen hi side lose their open two match in the 2005 six nation. robinson is alreadi without world cup winner jonni wilkinson, will greenwood, mike tindal, richard hill and trevor woodman through injuri. vickeri ha broken the radiu, a larg bone in hi forearm. he onli return to the england side last weekend after a long-term back injuri, which wa follow by a fractur ey socket. and the gloucest prop wa onli recal after leicest tight-head julian white suffer a neck injuri which ha alreadi seen him rule out of the ireland game.

bath prop matt steven is the onli remain tight-head in england's train squad and could be involv against ireland. but he ha to plai second fiddl at club level to duncan bell, who excel for england a against franc and mai now be call into the squad. the extent of barklei's injuri is not yet clear but bath boss john connolli rate him no better than "50-50" to face ireland. barklei plai at insid cent in england's defeat by franc and if he is unabl to plai, england's constantli-chang midfield will onc again have to be alter.

robinson could choos to recal mathew tait or henri paul, although tait endur a nightmar for newcastl against leicest on saturdai and paul limp off with an ankl injuri against bath. in-form leicest centr olli smith is the other outstand candid, and two tri against newcastl will have boost hi chanc. fly-half andi good is also a strong contend for the match-dai 22 after an immacul kick displai on saturdai. england, fourth in the six nation tabl with zero point, plai ireland, top of the tabl, in dublin on 27 februari, kick-off 1500 gmt.
