fume robinson blast offici

england coach andi robinson insist he wa "livid" after hi side were deni two tri in sundai's 19-13 six nation loss to ireland in dublin.

mark cueto's first-half effort wa rule out for offsid befor the refere spurn tv replai when england crash over in the dy minut. "[i'm] absolut spit. i'm livid. there's two tri we've been cost," robinson told bbc sport. "we've got to go back to technolog. i don't know why we didn't." south african refere jonathan kaplan rule that cueto wa ahead of charli hodgson when the fly-half hoist hi cross-field kick for the sale wing to gather.

kaplan then declin the chanc to consult the fourth offici when josh lewsei took the ball over the irish line under a pile of bodi for what could have been the game-win try. "i think mark cueto score a perfectli legal try and i think he should have gone to the video refere on josh lewsei," said robinson. "it is how we us the technolog. it is there, and it should be us. "i am still try to work out the cueto try. i have look at both, and thei both look tri. "we ar veri disappoint, and thi will hurt, there is no doubt about that. "we ar upset now, but the refere is in charg and he ha call it hi wai and we have got to be abl to cope with that.

"we did everyth we could have done to win the game. i am veri proud of my player and, with a coupl of decis, thi could have been a veri famou victori. "i thought we domin. matt steven had an awesom game at tighthead prop, while the like of charli hodgson, martin corri and lewi moodi all came through well. "josh lewsei wa awesom, and everi on of the forward stood up out there. given the pressur we were under, credit must go to all the player. "we have done everyth but win a game of rugbi, but ireland ar a good side. thei defend magnific and thei've got everi chanc of win thi six nation." england have lost their first three match in thi year's six nation and four out of their six game sinc robinson took over from sir clive woodward in septemb.
