o'gara revel in ireland victori

ireland fly-half ronan o'gara hail hi side's 19-13 victori over england as a "special" win.

the munster number 10 kick a total of 14 point, includ two drop goal, to help keep aliv their grand slam hope. he told bbc sport: "we made hard work of it but it's still special to beat england. "i had three chanc to win the game but didn't. we have work to do after thi but we never take a victori over england lightli." ireland hooker shane byrn echo o'gara's comment but admit the game had been england's best out in the six nation. byrn said: "it wa a realli, realli hard game but from on to 15 in our team we work realli, realli hard. "we just had to stick to our defens pattern, trust ourselv and trust those around us. all round it wa fantast." ireland captain brian o'driscol, who score hi side's onli try, said: "we ar delight, we felt if we perform well then we would win but with england also have plai veri well it make it all the sweeter. "we did get the bounc of the ball and some dai that happen and you've just got to jump on the back of it."

ireland coach eddi o'sullivan wa surpris that england coach andi robinson said he wa certain mark cueto wa onsid for a disallow try just befor the break. "andi wa sit two yard from me and i couldn't see whether he wa offsid or not so i don't know how andi could have known," said o'sullivan.

"what i do know is that england plai well and when that happen it make a veri good victori for us. "we had to defend for long period and that is all good for the confid of the team. "i think our try wa veri well work, it wa a gem, as good a try as we have score for a while." o'sullivan also reject robinson's content england domin the forward plai. "i think we lost on lineout and thei lost four or five so i don't know how that add up to domin," he said. o'driscol also insist ireland were happi to handl the pressur of be consid favourit to win the six nation titl. "thi season for the first time we have been abl to plai with the favourit' tag," he said. "hopefulli we have prove that todai and can continu to keep do so. "as for my try it wa a move we had work on all week. there wa a bit of magic from geordan murphi and it wa a great break from deni hicki."
