london irish 19-33 wasp

wasp made light of the absenc of sever intern to sink london irish with a trio of second-half tri.

rob hoadlei return to haunt hi old club at the madejski stadium, score the open try in the 43rd minut. tom voyc power through the irish defenc for wasp' second try befor richard birkett went over unchalleng. mark van gisbergen ad 18 point. irish repli with three penalti and a mark mapletoft drop goal befor scott staniforth ran in a consol try. barri everitt, who replac mapletoft late in the game, ad the convers to becom the fourth premiership player to reach 1,000 point. he join jonni wilkinson, tim stimpson and paul grayson in achiev that target. wasp pile on the pressur in an attempt to grab a fourth try which would have secur them a bonu point, but thei were deni by some desper defend from irish. director of rugbi warren gatland reveal that harsh word at half-time inspir hi wasp side to rais their game after the restart.

"thei got a roast and it wa a good second-half perform when thei came out and plai to instruct," he said. gatland also singl out stand-in flanker tom ree and john hart for special prais. "thei did veri well. the back row plai some fantast rugbi," he ad. london irish coach gari gold felt the result expos hi side's lack of consist.

irish trail by just two point at the break and gold said: "for 55 minut we live with the best but we have got to get back for the full 80 minut." gold will now turn hi attent to next week's powergen cup semi-final at struggl leed. "we've got a good chanc but with leed face possibl releg thei're go to come out fire," he ad.

horak, staniforth, pennei, nordt, bishop; mapletoft, edward; hatlei, van der walt, hardwick; kennedi, casei; gustard, dawson, murphi.

replac: everitt for mapletoft (53), hodgson for edward (77), wheatlei for hatlei (71), paic for van der walt (60), strudwick for kennedi (60), danah for gustard (66), reid for murphi (47)

van gisbergen; voyc, erinl, hoadlei, robert; king, richard; payn, green, dowd; shaw, purdi; hart, ree, dallaglio.

replac: priscott for robert (71), green for dowd (71), skivington for shaw (71), birkett for hart (57), got for ree (39). not us: furi, brook
