robinson readi for difficult task

england coach andi robinson face the first major test of hi tenur as he tri to get back to win wai after the six nation defeat by wale.

robinson is like to make chang in the back row and centr after the 11-9 loss as he contempl sundai's set-to with franc at twickenham. lewi moodi and martin corri could both return after miss the game with hamstr and shoulder problem. and the midfield pair of mathew tait and jami noon is also under threat. olli barklei immedi allow england to gener better field posit with hi kick game after replac debut tait just befor the hour. the bath fly-half-cum-centr is like to start against franc, with either tait or noon drop out.

tait, given littl opportun to shine in attack, receiv prais from robinson afterward, even if the coach admit cardiff wa an "unforgiv place" for the teenag prodigi. robinson now ha a tricki decis over whether to withdraw from the fire line, after just on out, a player he regard as central to england's futur. tait himself, at least outwardli, appear unaffect by the punish treatment dish out to him by gavin henson in particular. "i want more of that definit," he said. "hopefulli i can train hard thi week and get select for next week but we'll have to look at the video and wait and see. "we were plai on our own 22 for a lot of the first half so it wa quit difficult. i thought we defend reason well but we've just got to pick it up for franc."

hi newcastl team-mate noon hardli cover himself in glori in hi first major test. he miss a tackl on michael owen in the build-up to wale' try, conced a penalti at the breakdown, wa turn over in anoth tackl and fumbl gavin henson's cross-kick into touch, all insid the first quarter. hi contribut improv in the second half, but england clearli need more of a playmak in the insid centr role. up front, the line-out remain fallibl, despit a superb perform from chri jone, whose athletic came to the fore after step into the side for moodi. it is more like the leicest flanker will return on the open side for the more physic challeng pose by the french forward, with andi hazel like to make wai. lock ben kai also justifi hi recal with an impress all-round displai on hi return to the side, but elsewher england posit were thin on the ground.
