itali 17-28 ireland

two moment of magic from brian o'driscol guid ireland to a workmanlik victori against itali.

a pair of classic outsid break from the ireland captain set up tri for geordan murphi and peter stringer. itali led 9-8 earli in the second half but stringer's try gave ireland a lead thei never lost. the host cut the gap to 18-12 with 10 minut left and nearli score through ludovico nitoglia, but deni hicki's try ensur an irish victori. itali came fly out of the block and took the lead through a luciano orquera penalti after seven minut.

it could have been better for the host but the fly-half miss two kickabl penalti and ireland drew level with a ronan o'gara penalti midwai through the first half. the italian were drive at the heart of the irish defenc and, for the first quarter, the irish pack struggl to secur ani ball for their talent back.

when thei final did, just befor the half-hour mark, o'driscol promptli creat a sparkl try for murphi. the ireland captain ran a dummi scissor and made a magic outsid break befor draw the full-back and put the dive murphi in at the corner. o'gara miss the twice-taken convers and the visitor found themselv trail onc again. roland de marigni took over the kick duti for itali from the hapless orquera, and he land a penalti either side of the break to edg itali into a 9-8 lead.

the onli ireland player offer a real threat wa o'driscol, and it wa hi break that set up the second try for the visitor. shane horgan threw an overhead pass as he wa about to be forc into touch and stringer scoot over, with o'gara land the tricki convers. a penalti apiec saw ireland lead 18-12 as the game enter the final quarter, but thei were lucki to surviv when itali launch a seri of attack. winger nitoglia drop the ball as he reach for the line and itali nearli rumbl over from a drive maul.

an o'gara penalti put ireland more than a convert try ahead and thei made the game safe when hicki latch onto an insid pass from murphi and cross for a convert try. o'driscol limp off late on, join centr partner gordon d'arci on the sidelin, and the final word went to itali. prop martin castrogiovanni power over for a try which wa fit reward for an italian pack which had kept the irish under pressur throughout.

de marigni; mi bergamasco, canal, masi, nitoglia; orquera, troncon; lo cicero, ongaro, castrogiovanni; dellap, bortolami; persico, ma bergamasco, pariss.

perugini, intoppa, del fava, dal maso, griffen, pozzebon, robertson.

murphi, horgan, o'driscol, d'arci, hicki, o'gara, stringer, corrigan, byrn, hay, o'kelli, o'connel, s easterbi, leami, folei.

sheahan, horan, o'callaghan, miller, g easterbi, humphrei, dempsei.

p o'brien (new zealand)
