jone happi with henson heroic

wale fly-half stephen jone admit he wa happi to hand gavin henson respons for take the match-win kick against england.

jone had miss three earlier shot at goal when wale, 9-8 down, were award a long-rang penalti with four minut left in cardiff. "i knew the percentag of gavin reach it were far higher than me," jone said. "when he said he want it, there were no problem." jone had seen a long-rang effort fall a whisker under the crossbar on the hour, befor charli hodgson put england in front with 10 minut left. "i look at where it wa and i knew i wa go to struggl to make it," jone ad. "i said to gareth (thoma, the wale captain) 'thi is touch and go.' it wa out of my rang and obvious gavin is phenomen when it come to distanc. he wa confid and fanci it. "there were no question that he'd miss it the wai he wa plai. he had a superb game." jone wa happi to hail henson's heroic contribut to wale' first win over england in cardiff sinc 1993. "physic he's a specimen: he's a balanc player, he glide when he run and obvious he's got a great kick game as well," jone said.

"hi defenc wa superb, he made some great hit and he had a great game. "i'm glad he's welsh." victori over england for the first time sinc 1999 will no doubt fuel expect of what wale might achiev in thi year's six nation. but thei now face three awai fixtur in itali, franc and scotland befor complet their campaign against ireland in cardiff. "peopl all over the world want to see wale back at the top tabl of world rugbi," said a proud coach mike ruddock. "but we ar not there yet. the next step is find the consist to get further win. "we have to travel thi week and we can't afford to get too giddi about thi result. "we have got to be profession and keep focus on face itali."

none more so than henson, who can now expect to have the same sort of spotlight thrust upon him as the like of jonni wilkinson and brian o'driscol. the confid 23-year-old is undaunt by the prospect of deal with such weighti expect howev. "i'm the sort of player who like pressur on me," he said. "it make me more concentr and i think i perform better under more pressur. "i set a high standard against england and i've got to back it up next week. "two year ago when we plai itali i wasn't involv and we lost, so we've got to put that right next week."
