henson stake earli lion claim

the six nation mai be a glitter prize in itself but everi player from the four home union will also have on ey on a possibl trip to new zealand with the lion thi summer.

the player who stake the biggest claim for a place in the start xv over the weekend wa gavin henson. he's veri confid. you just had to listen to hi interview afterward - he beam with confid - but although there's an element of arrog it's good arrog. he certainli show some nice touch. he onc show a clean pair of heel to mathew tait when he got outsid him, hi defenc wa veri good and he made some great kick out of hand. and that's without even mention hi majest match-win penalti. but i think we need to wait and see what happen becaus he need to be put to the test. he need to come up against brian o'driscol or a big french midfield. wale fly-half stephen jone wa anoth player who impress me. he gave good direct, he wa veri confid and he wa a nice gener for hi side. he show he can control a game. with jonni wilkinson not plai at the moment due to inuri the number 10 shirt could be up for grab and jone, or mayb even henson, could make the lion team at fly-half.

jone stuck hi hand up and he certainli look a better bet than charli hodgson after saturdai's game. some of the wale forward surpris me becaus i thought thei would be out-muscl in the tight five. england prop julian white is a capabl player but when it come down to select gethin jenkin is now go to have the upper hand becaus he came out on top. howev, i still think white and phil vickeri will be in the frame. some english player did their caus no harm. i thought joe worslei had a solid game and jason robinson and josh lewsei both did noth wrong. but it look too soon for young mathew tait and i think it will be a while befor we see him again. despit be written off beforehand sever scot caught my ey against franc.

tom smith ha been there and done it befor, but the like of chri cusit, jason white and alli hogg all made their mark. hogg made a coupl of good run while white had a pretti robust game - hi defenc is right up there. cusit look veri live and he could be a veri good option for lion coach sir clive woodward. the star of ireland's win over itali in rome look like a certainti to make the start xv against new zealand. brian o'driscol is a class act. he ran some good line against itali, made the break and fed hi outsid back, although itali defend man on man which made it easi for him. gordon d'arci wa unlucki to go off injur earli on but i think you could get a henson, d'arci, o'driscol combin in the lion midfield. paul o'connel just need to add a hard edg to hi game and malcolm o'kelli keep on go and seem to be put hi hand up, while shane byrn seem to be a live charact. but thei will be a bit worri after the italian pack drove them off their own ball on sundai, although i us to plai in itali and i know how difficult it can be. on player who didn't impress me wa wale scrum-half dwayn peel. he choke late on in the second half when wale were trail. thei had good possess and he kick the ball awai - i wouldn't want him as my lion scrum-half after that.
