murphi: that wa a bruis battl

that's what i call a tough game. it wa veri physic and fair plai to the italian thei made us work veri hard for our victori.

their organis wa veri, veri good and thei prove again that thei ar get better and better as the year go by. it is by far the strongest italian team that we have face. we knew all along that we would be a huge threat particularli the first game in the championship. it wa not like the dai gone by when you could get score on the board earli. we had to work our sock off and try and build our score gradual. it wa realli hard work out there and the player have plenti of bump and bruis to prove it. i'm not too bad, but there ar on or two other who will be feel it a bit on mondai morn. in the back, we were not frustrat at such, but the new ruck law were a littl bit problemat. the differ interpret between the refere and the player wa a littl difficult. but we manag to get the ball in our hand and i got a try near the end of the first half. it's alwai good to score. it wa great work by brian and i alwai knew i had score even though it went upstair to the video refere. eddi (o'sullivan) wa veri calm at half-time even though we were onli 8-6 ahead. he spell out what we need to do and advoc get the ball out of our own territori.

that new ruck law made it a bit more difficult to get out of our own half. we were penalis a lot at the breakdown, and if thei had kick all their chanc at goal we would have been behind at the break. so realli we went back to plai a territori game and simplifi thing and have more patienc on the ball. everi on wa a littl down after the game follow the injuri to brian and gordon. as yet we do not know the full extent of the injuri, but it doe not that good. now we have to focu on scotland and onli six dai to recov. it's a big ask after such a bruis encount. i wa veri impress the wai the scot plai against the french on saturdai. it could so easili have gone their wai but for a coupl of decis. we will be under no illus it is go to be tough for us. in the meantim, when in rome ... .
