wale make two chang for franc

wale coach mike ruddock ha made two chang from the team that beat itali 38-8 for saturdai's trip to franc.

kevin morgan take over from hi injur newport-gwent dragon colleagu hal luscomb on the right wing. and in the pack neath-swansea osprei forward ryan jone is prefer at blindsid flanker to jonathan thoma. thoma, a try-scorer in rome, drop down to the bench instead of ian gough, while cardiff back rhy william step up in place of morgan. luscomb is sidelin by a hamstr problem sustain dure the six nation game against itali last weekend.

howev, the experienc and in-form morgan wa alreadi push hard for a start at stade de franc. "due to hi impress perform from the bench, kevin wa veri much in the select mix anywai, and the unfortun injuri to hal give him the chanc to start," said ruddock. "now that ryan jone ha recov from injuri, we have increas the option in the back row. "jonathan thoma is unlucki to lose hi spot after perform well against itali and score a try, but such is the competit for place that everi posit is debat in detail. "for thi particular game, we felt we might not alwai be afford the open space out wide we were abl to exploit against itali, so an extra big ball-carrier in the back-row is thought to be necessari on thi occas. "obvious, it's a 22-man game these dai, and there is everi chanc that jonathan will be make an impact from the bench." wale have beaten franc on two of their last three visit to pari, and anoth victori thi time around would keep them firmli on cours for a first five or six nation titl triumph sinc 1994. "graham henri (former wale coach) said a coupl of year ago that we should 'be bold' when go to franc, and he wa prove right," said ruddock. "that is a great wai to approach the game, and someth we will further endors with the player thi week."

g thoma (toulous, capt); k morgan (newport-gwent), t shanklin (cardiff), g henson (neath-swansea), s william (neath-swansea); s jone (clermont auvergn), d peel (llanelli); g jenkin (cardiff), m davi (gloucest), a jone; (neath-swansea), b cockbain (neath-swansea), r sidoli (cardiff); r jone (neath-swansea), m william (cardiff), m owen (newport-gwent).

replac: r mcbryde (llanelli), j yapp (cardiff), j thoma (neath-swansea), r sowden-taylor (cardiff), g cooper (newport-gwent), c sweenei newport-gwent), r william (cardiff).
