ireland surg past scot

ireland maintain their six nation grand slam ambit with an impress victori over scotland at murrayfield.

hugo southwel's try gave the scot an earli 8-0 lead but score from lock malcolm o'kelli and paul o'connel put the visitor in command by half-time. a third try from wing deni hicki and third penalti from ronan o'gara, who kick 13 point, extend the lead. jon petri score a second try for scotland but late score from john hay and gavin duffi seal victori. after two hard-earn awai victori, eddi o'sullivan' side can now look forward to welcom england to lansdown road in a fortnight. scotland will try to give their coach matt william a first six nation victori when itali come to edinburgh, but thei again struggl to turn pressur into point. the home side start with tremend intens and domin territori and possess in the open 10 minut. a power charg from flanker jason white wa carri on by ali hogg and when ireland conced a penalti close to their own line, scotland kick it to touch. the irish defenc foil the home side on that occas, but a strai hand in a ruck allow paterson to stroke over a penalti in the eighth minut.

if that wa a paltri reward for their earli pressur, scotland got the try thei deserv when paterson's sear break and andi craig's pass sent southwel streak to the right corner. paterson wa off target with the convers and fly-half dan park then miss a present drop-goal attempt. ireland got themselv on the scoreboard with an o'gara penalti and by the 24th minut the visitor were ahead. stuart grime pull down o'kelli at a line-out, ireland kick the penalti to touch and from the set-piec, the big lock wa driven over by the rest of hi pack.

o'gara ad the convers and a further penalti, after shane horgan almost grab a second try from o'gara's chip to the corner, onli for the ball to spill from hi hand. but ireland still deliv a hammer blow to scotland's hope just befor the interv. o'connel - skipper in the absenc of brian o'driscol - power through park' weak tackl after a free-kick from a scrummag to burrow over.

scotland suffer a further blow on the resumpt when ireland flanker johnni o'connor won anoth vital turnov, and o'gara's basketbal pass sent hicki over in the left corner. o'gara convert and then thump over a 40m penalti to give the visitor a command 28-8 advantag. scotland look bereft of idea but a half-break from paterson spark them back to life just befor the hour. stuart grime won a line-out and a well-work move saw petri scuttl round the side of the ruck to dive over in the left corner. but it prove a fals dawn, and ireland reassert their author in the final 10 minut. peter stringer and o'kelli combin to put giant prop hay over in the right corner befor replac gavin duffi scorch awai on the left, david humphrei ad the final flourish with a touchlin convers.

: c paterson; s danielli, a craig, h southwel, s lamont; d park, c cusit; t smith, g bulloch (capt), g kerr; s grime, s murrai; j white, a hogg, j petri.

r russel, b dougla, n hine, j dunbar, m blair, g ross, b hinshelwood.

g murphi; g dempsei, s horgan, k magg, d hicki, r o'gara, p stringer; r corrigan, s byrn, j hay, m o'kelli, p o'connel, s easterbi, j o'connor, a folei.

f sheahan, m horan, d o'callaghan, e miller, g easterbi, d humphrei, g duffi.

joel jutg (franc)
