white prepar for battl

tough-scrummag prop julian white is expect a resurg wale to give him a rough ride in england's six nation open in cardiff on saturdai.

the leicest tight-head is in the form of hi life, make the england number three shirt hi own. but he know wale will put hi techniqu under immens scrutini. "the welsh scrum is a forc to be reckon with," he told bbc sport. "thei have made a lot of chang for the better over the last few year." white is also impress with the welsh pack's strength in depth. "gethin jenkin is start at loos-head for them. he ha plai a bit at tight-head but i think hi favour posit is loos-head and he is veri good," he ad. the 31-year-old ha made a massiv contribut to the england and leicest caus of late and is arguabl the form tight-head prop in the world.

he destroi south africa's os du randt in the scrum at twickenham last autumn to give england the platform for an impress 32-16 victori. leicest, who sign white from bristol when the west countri side were releg from the zurich premiership in the summer of 2003, have also been aid by white's presenc thi season. the tiger ar sit pretti at the top of the premiership tabl and have also book their place in the last eight of the heineken cup. "i am pleas with my form," he said. "but my form is help by the peopl i plai with at leicest - peopl like martin johnson and graham rowntre. "it's been a good season so far and to be in the start xv for the first game of the six nation is what everi player want. "i am delight with the wai thing have gone but we have to get it right thi weekend." white is now on of the more experienc member of the england squad which take to the field on saturdai. injuri have taken their toll and coach andi robinson ha been depriv of richard hill, jonni wilkinson, martin corri, mike tindal, will greenwood and stuart abbott.

and with 27 cap and a world cup winner's medal to hi name, white is now in a posit to offer hi experi to youngster such as centr matthew tait and jami noon. "i don't know how much experi a tight-head can give a centr but you ar there to give them a pat on the back if thing go wrong or to be there if thei want to talk in ani wai," he ad. "when i first came into the squad, peopl like jason leonard and martin johnson were the first to come over and talk through thing and help out.

"it give you a lot of confid when peopl like that speak to you. "i wa in aw of a lot of them so to sit down and speak with them and realis you ar on the same wavelength is good." white miss the vast major of last year's six nation becaus of a knee injuri and is rare for the 2005 event to get go. and that is despit the open game take place amid the red-hot atmospher in cardiff. "i enjoi the atmospher. the millennium stadium is probabl on of the best stadium in the world," he said. "to go down there and hear the shout and the sing - it's on of my favourit place to plai. "thi is probabl the most even six nation for a long time. england, ireland, franc and wale ar all contend. "on form, ireland should be favourit but you just don't know - that's the great thing about thi tournament."
