franc v wale (sat)

stade de franc, pari

saturdai, 26 februari

1600 gmt

bbc1, radio 4 lw and thi websit

franc mai have beaten scotland and england but thei were tediou and uninspir throughout both match. wale, on the other hand, have plai some fine rugbi and have made their best start sinc thei last won the titl in 1994. thei also have a good record at the stade de franc, have won their first two game there, in 1999 and 2001. wale have made two chang from the team that thrash itali 38-8 in rome.

kevin morgan take over from hi injur newport-gwent dragon colleagu hal luscomb on the right wing. in the pack neath-swansea osprei forward ryan jone ba been brought on the blind-side flank to beef up the wale back row in place of jonathan thoma. wale coach mike ruddock is determin that hi team will not go into their shell after their promis start to the championship. "graham henri (former wale coach) said a coupl of year ago that we should 'be bold' when go to franc, and he wa prove right," said ruddock. "that is a great wai to approach the game, and someth we will further endors with the player thi week."

despit their stutter displai in their first two game defend champion franc ar also unbeaten. under-pressur coach bernard laport ha made four chang, with yannick nyanga, the debut julien laharragu, aurelien rougeri and yannick jauzion come into the side. franc have been criticis for the absenc of tradit "french flair" as thei have ground their wai to victori so far thi year but captain fabien pelou see hope on the horizon. "i get the impress we ar get better," he said. "against wale, which is differ from the team we have beaten, i hope we can show our proper game."

j laharragu; a rougeri, y jauzion, d traill, c dominici; y delaigu, d yachvili; s marconnet, s bruno, n ma; f pelou (capt), j thion; s betsen, y nyanga, j bonnair (bourgoin).

w servat, o milloud, g lambolei, i harinordoqui, p mignoni, f michalak, j-p grandclaud.

g thoma (capt); k morgan, t shanklin, g henson, s william; s jone, d peel; g jenkin, m davi, a jone; b cockbain, r sidoli; r jone, m william, m owen.

r mcbryde, j yapp, j thoma, r sowden-taylor, g cooper, c sweenei, r william.
