scotland v itali (sat)

murrayfield, edinburgh

saturdai, 26 februari

1400 gmt

bbc1, five live and thi websit

victori for the azzurri in rome last year saw scotland end their campaign without a victori. and the pressur is on scotland coach matt william as he seek a first six nation victori at the eighth attempt. itali have lost both their open game at home to ireland and wale, but travel to edinburgh with high hope.

their coach john kirwan ha warn hi side thei must erad the error that blight their loss to wale howev or risk suffer a third success defeat. "if the defeat against wale ha taught us anyth, it's that at thi level we can't make ani mistak," kirwan said. "in the six nation, everi error you make will come at a high price. "we have to be aggress for 80 minut, keep calm in everi situat and displai great matur on the pitch.

"it will be fundament to keep cool in the difficult moment - in the kei situat of the game." kirwan ha recal the experienc cristian stoica at centr and draft in david dal maso at open-side after star flanker mauro bergamasco wa rule out for the rest of the tournament. scotland have also made two chang, simon webster replac simon danielli on the wing and simon taylor return for hi first test in a year, for injur flanker jason white. taylor's recoveri from a seriou knee injuri is a major boost to scottish hope. "he is on of the world-class player in the tournament and you want them in your team," acknowledg william.

despit a record of onli two victori from 14 test, william insist he is revel in the pressur. "i actual realli enjoi see how you cope with such pressur as a coach," he said, optimist despit open defeat to franc and ireland. "we were confid for those two first game and we ar confid we can beat itali too," he ad.

: c paterson; s webster, a craig, h southwel, s lamont; d park, c cusit; t smith, g bulloch (capt), g kerr; s grime, s murrai; s taylor, j petri, a hogg.

r russel, b dougla, n hine, j dunbar, m blair, g ross, b hinshelwood.

r de marigni; mirco bergamasco, c stoica, a masi, l nitoglia; l orquera, a troncon; a lo cicero, f ongaro, m castrogiovanni; s dellap, m bortolami (capt); a persico, d dal maso, s pariss.

g intoppa, s perugini, ca del fava, s orlando, p griffen, r pedrazzi, kp robertson.
