preview: ireland v england (sun)

lansdown road, dublin

sundai, 27 februari

1500 gmt

bbc1, radio 4 lw and thi websit

ireland ar go for their first grand slam sinc 1948 after two open win, and england repres their sternest test of the championship so far. england were sloppi and leaderless in the defeat against wale and franc and anoth loss would be unthink. the pressur is on coach andi robinson and hi side have to deliv.

despit england's dramat dip in form sinc the world cup final - thei have lost eight of their last 13 match - ireland coach eddi o'sullivan sai hi side should not underestim the visitor. "had thei kick their point thei would have beaten franc and that would have creat a differ landscap for sundai," he said. "thi is england we ar talk about. thei have a depth of talent and a veri good record against ireland. "thei will target a victori in dublin as the turn point in their six nation." the differ between the side is also highlight in the team select for the dublin encount.

ireland, despit have gordon d'arci still out injur, have been boost by the return of star skipper brian o'driscol who miss the scotland game with a hamstr injuri. "the knowledg that the england game wa come up realli help dure rehabilit," he said. "the will to plai in thi game wa enorm. it doesn't get much bigger than england at home." as well as enter the tournament without player like jonni wilkinson, mike tindal and richard hill, england have now lost two tighthead prop in julian white and phil vickeri while blind-side flanker lewi moodi is a major concern. robinson, who receiv a lot of flak for the inclus and then drop of centr mathew tait, ha kept faith with kick fly-half charli hodgson despit hi horror show at twickenham. if england slump in dublin, it will be their worst run of result in the championship sinc 1987.

but robinson wa bullish dure the week about the game, sai that hi side "ar go there to get in their face", and ha identifi the line-out and tackl area as the kei to england's chanc. and despit the recent result, skipper jason robinson believ there is noth wrong with the mood in the camp. "there is no lack of confid in the team," said the sale full-back. "we have had a good week's train and we ar all look forward to the challeng. "i still believ in thi team. i know if we get our game right we will win the game."

g murphi; g dempsei, b o'driscol, s horgan, d hicki; r o'gara, p stringer; r corrigan, s byrn, j hay; m o'kelli, p o'connel; s easterbi, j o'connor, a folei.

f sheahan, m horan, d o'callaghan, e miller, g easterbi, d humphrei, k magg.

j robinson (capt); m cueto, j noon, o barklei, j lewsei; c hodgson, h elli; g rowntre, s thompson, m steven; d grewcock, b kai; j worslei, l moodi, m corri.

a titterrel, d bell, s borthwick, a hazel, m dawson, a good, o smith.
