sella want michalak recal

former franc centr philipp sella believ coach bernard laport must recal freder michalak to give hi side ani chanc of beat ireland.

sella admit he had been impress by current fly-half yann delaigu in the rb six nation to date. but he told bbc sport: "michalak is the answer both now and for the futur. delaigu deserv hi chanc but the time ha come to bring back michalak. "he doe have weak but ha the all-round game to upset ireland." the 22-year-old michalak ha spent much of the tournament on the bench after delaigu impress for castr earli in the season. with michalak overlook, the french stutter to narrow win over scotland and then england befor iron plai their best rugbi in the defeat to wale. "the wale game wa amaz to watch but never did i think the french could lose that game at half-time," said sella.

"their onli mistak were that thei didn't score enough point in the first half and were a littl bit less focus in the second... but onli a littl bit." sella, howev, insist the pressur had eas on the under-fire laport, despit the defeat at the stade de franc. "thi season is veri import for shape a team for the 2007 world cup," said sella, "which laport is do veri well. the french get better everi game. "it's difficult, though, when you chang a team and you chang your tactic as everyth ha to gel. "but he ha the player and the talent to take them all the wai to world cup victori. "as a result, it is import that peopl give him time. it mai not seem good now that we're not win the grand slam but no on will care in two year time if we're world champion."

the major of media critic centr on the wai in which franc produc a perform devoid of run rugbi in their open two game. but while sella admit he like the more flow style emploi against wale, he said "the win wa most import". "win is all that matter," he ad. "ok, the flair mai not have been so good, but the disciplin, organis and defenc wa there, which ar all import ahead of 2007." franc plai what sella believ is their hardest game of the six nation against ireland in dublin on saturdai 12 march. the french go into the game as clear underdog. but sella ad: "peopl forget that franc can still win the six nation and thei'll be focus on that. "but ireland will be go for even more in front of their home crowd. it's go to be tough."
