umaga readi for lion

all black captain tama umaga ha warn the british and irish lion will be hi most fearsom oppon yet ahead of their summer tour.

but umaga, in england for saturdai's irb rugbi aid match, also back new zealand to win the three-test seri against the lion. he told bbc sport: "it's potenti the most fearsom line-up i've ever come up against. thei're awesom. "but i'd back us all the wai to beat them when thei come over." lion boss sir clive woodward is set to announc hi squad for the june-juli tour next month.

when woodward wa appoint last year, it wa wide believ he would reli heavili on hi former england player. but umaga said: "he'd be hard push to do that now consid the shape of the six nation. "don't get me wrong, england have got a lot of talent gui and i'm sure there ar some of them who'll make the lion test xv. "but you can't disguis wale and ireland in particular. some of the tri thei've score have been great. i'll admit it'll be fairli awesom line up against the like of brian o'driscol."

umaga will meet o'driscol in saturdai's rugbi aid match at twickenham, with the irish captain lead the northern hemispher side. o'driscol is among a host of player in the northern hemispher squad, coach by woodward, that ar tip for lion call-up. "it'll be good for us to get an earli idea of some of these gui, although a lot can chang between now and june," umaga said. the 31-year-old admit interest in the lion tour wa immens, call it "the biggest thing to hit new zealand sinc lord of the ring". he ad: "as player, it's enough for us to be driven by the rariti of plai the lion. in fact, it's not just us all black - it's the talk of the countri."

umaga admit the fear of injuri weigh on hi mind ahead of saturdai's chariti game, which featur a host of big name includ georg gregan, andrew mehrten and chri latham. but he admit the valu of the caus - proce of the match will go to aid victim of the tsunami - easili won him over. "the second [southern hemispher coach] rod macqueen made the approach, i didn't hesit. it wa great when new zealand rugbi then gave me the all clear. "thankfulli i didn't know anyon that wa involv in the tragedi of the tsunami but you couldn't miss all the horrif report on the new. "there ar so mani peopl that were affect, ar still affect and will be affect for a long time. it's just good to know we can do someth minor to help out."

- the match will be televis on bbc on at 1400 gmt on saturdai.
