campes berat whing england

former australian wing david campes ha told england to stop whing in the wake of their defeat to ireland.

england coach andi robinson lambast refere jonathan kaplan for cost them the game after disallow tri from mark cueto and josh lewsei. but campes told bbc sport: "robinson is live up to england's reput as whing pom. "stop go on about it as who realli care? thei're act like thei're the first team to be cheat of a win."

england ar contempl a complaint to the intern rugbi board after potenti "tri" by cueto in the first half and lewsei late on were rule out without recours to the video refere. but campes ad: "scotland could have beaten franc in the same wai, but do you see them whing? "basic, thing didn't go england's wai and, in typic fashion, thei make more of it when thei believ thei've lost unfairli."

england ar second bottom in the six nation tabl follow defeat by wale, franc and ireland. but although campes admit he wa surpris about their current predica, he insist england were "no longer world class". "england ar begin to realis that be world champion doesn't mean you deserv to win everi game," he said. "thei lost a few kei player and suddenli everyon's realis the on on the fring were not all that good in the first place. "ad to that, the senior player aren't stand up and thei can't do anyth when the pressur mount."

campes, a veteran of 101 intern cap, said full-back jason robinson would now be the sole englishman in hi world xv. robinson ha been blame for poor leadership in the tournament, while hi coach ha been castig for appoint a full-back captain. "i agre that you can't captain from full-back," said campes. "you need someon in the thick of the action, and it's veri hard to give order from all the wai back there. "some peopl ar leader and some aren't. he's not but there's no on who stand out in england's pack - no clear-cut leader." campes, though, defend coach andi robinson, who he believ wa the "onli choic" after sir clive woodward's resign.

but he blame "a lack of talent in the england camp" for make the current coach look poor. england face a potenti wooden spoon match against itali on 12 march. and the ex-wallabi ad: "if england lost that, thei'd be in bloodi turmoil. that said, i don't think thei will." campes ha tip wale to win both the six nation and grand slam come the end of the tournament. "it's been a surpris tournament," he said, "and mayb ireland have a littl bit more talent overal. "but plai at home is a major boost. and the possibl grand slam decid at the millennium stadium will be just too much for the irish."
