o'driscol/gregan lead aid star

ireland's brian o'driscol will lead the northern hemispher team in the irb rugbi aid match at twickenham.

o'driscol head a star-stud cast for the contest to rais fund for the tsunami appeal. the south will be led by georg gregan, on of four wallabi, alongsid five springbok and four all black includ captain tana umaga. south african flanker schalk burger ha shaken off a leg injuri to take hi place in the start line-up. he will join fellow springbok john smit, cobu visagi and victor matfield in the south pack, with jacqu fouri among the centr. the north side have been hit by the withdraw of scotland duo gordon bulloch and chri cusit, plu franc captain fabien pelou.

but leicest's england centr olli smith ha been ad to the squad, give him an opportun to impress lion coach sir clive woodward, who take charg of the north side. "i think it's fantast for olli," tiger coach john well told bbc radio leicest. "he wa probabl go to have the weekend off thi week and i hope clive get the chanc to see the qualiti that leicest and england have been see all year." woodward will also assess other potenti lion candid such as scotland pair simon taylor and chri paterson, wale scrum-half dwayn peel and ireland lock paul o'connel. "i'm look forward to work with such outstand player," woodward said. "both team ar field top-qualiti side and i realli hope that the rugbi public and commun get behind thi game to rais as much monei as possibl for such a deserv caus." despit the withdraw of wale wing rhy william, who is requir for the blue' celtic leagu match with munster, three other member of their six nation squad - ceri sweenei, john yapp and jonathan thoma - will also plai. "not onli it is for a good caus but it give these player the opportun to plai with and against some of the best player in the world," said wru gener manag steve lewi. support can watch the team train for free at twickenham on fridai, 4 march. woodward will put hi north team through their pace at 1030 gmt, with the south side, coach by former wallabi coach rod macqueen, due at the stadium at 1330.

c paterson (scotland), b cohen (england), b o'driscol (ireland, capt), d traill (franc), o smith (england), c sweenei (wale), d humphrei (ireland), d peel (wale); a lo cicero (itali), p de villier (franc), j yapp (wale), r ibanez (franc), p o'connel (ireland), m bortolami (itali), j thoma (wale), s taylor (scotland), l dallaglio (england), s pariss (itali), other to be ad.

c latham (australia); b lima (samoa), j fouri (sa) t umaga (new zealand), s bobo (fiji); a mehrten (nz) g gregan (au, capt); c hoeft (nz), j smit (sa), c visagi (sa), s male (nz), v matfield (sa), s burger (sa), p waugh (au), t kefu (au).

e taukafa (tonga), e guinazu (argentina), s sititi (samoa), o palepoi (samoa), m rauluni (fiji), t delport (sa), a n other.
