harinordoqui suffer franc ax

number eight imanol harinordoqui ha been drop from franc's squad for the six nation match with ireland in dublin on 12 march.

harinordoqui wa a second-half replac in last saturdai's 24-18 defeat to wale. bourgoin lock pascal pape, who ha recov from a sprain ankl, return to the 22-man squad. wing cedric heyman and ludov valbon come in for aurelien rougeri and jean-philipp grandclaud.

rougeri hurt hi chest against wale while grandclaud wa a second-half replac against both england and wale. valbon, cap in last june's test against the unit state and canada, wa a second half replac in the win over scotland.

franc coach bernard laport said harinordoqui had been ax after a poor displai last weekend. "imanol ha been drop from the squad becaus the least i can sai is that he didn't make a thunder comeback against wale," said laport. "we know the ireland game will be fast and rough and we also want to be abl to replac both lock dure the game if need, and gregori lambolei can also come on at number seven or eight. "the grand slam is gone but we'll go to ireland to win. "it will be a veri excit game becaus ireland have three win under their belt, have just defeat england and have their ey set on a grand slam." franc, who lost to wale last week, must defeat the irish to keep aliv their hope of retain the six nation trophi. ireland ar unbeaten in thi year's tournament and have their sight set on a first grand slam sinc 1948.

dimitri yachvili (biarritz), pierr mignoni (clermont), yann delaigu (castr), freder michalak (stade toulousain), damien traill (biarritz), yannick jauzion (stade toulousain), ludov valbon (biarritz), christoph dominici (stade francai), cedric heyman (stade toulousain), julien laharragu (brive)

sylvain marconnet (stade francai), nicola ma (perpignan), olivi milloud (bourgoin), sebastien bruno (sale/eng), william servat (stade toulousain), fabien pelou (stade toulousain, capt), jerom thion (biarritz), pascal pap&#233; (bourgoin), gregori lambolei (stade toulousain), serg betsen (biarritz), julien bonnair (bourgoin), yannick nyanga (b&#233;zier)
