parker miss england clash

tom shanklin will start in the centr for wale against england in cardiff on saturdai after sonni parker fail to recov from a trap neck nerv.

shanklin wa first-choic wing in the autumn test, but prefer centr and will face england debut mathew tait. dragon three-quarter hal luscomb take shanklin's wing berth. up front, mefin davi plai at hooker, open-side martyn william is fit to start and lock rob sidoli replac veteran gareth llewellyn. davi win the vote ahead of robin mcbryde, who sit on the bench have recent return to action for the scarlet follow a neck injuri.

sidoli is back for the first time sinc last season's six nation, the blue second row back to form after a niggl groin problem. william, sidoli's team-mate at cardiff, is set to win hi 50th cap, replac the injur colin charvi after make a quicker-than-expect recoveri from a neck disc problem. "initi when i had the diagnosi it wa a case of try to get fit for the itali game next week, but fortun my recoveri ha been a lot quicker than we all hope," william told bbc sport wale. "i haven't start a game sinc 1 januari and would have prefer to have a coupl of game in the lead-up to thi, but the good thing with the injuri is that i have kept up my fit level. "i feel quit fresh and i just can't wait to plai again." william sai he expect a torrid time from an england loos-forward trio of lewi moodi, joe worslei and andi hazel. "thei ar three top-class player, especi worslei and moodi. thei have been there and done it," william ad. "thei were back-up behind richard hill, neil back and lawrenc dallaglio, but now thei have come forward and prove what good player thei ar - there ar no weak there." luscomb get the nod on the wing ahead of dragon team-mate kevin morgan, who win a place on the bench alongsid uncap blue prop john yapp.

g thoma (toulous (capt); h luscomb (dragon), t shanklin (blue), g henson (osprei), s william (osprei); s jone (clermont auvergn), d peel (scarlet); g jenkin (blue), m davi (gloucest), a jone (osprei), b cockbain (osprei), r sidoli (blue), d jone (scarlet), m william (blue), m owen (dragon).

r mcbryde (scarlet), j yapp (blue), j thoma (osprei), r jone (osprei), g cooper (dragon), c sweenei (dragon), k morgan (dragon).
