corri back skipper robinson

england forward martin corri sai jason robinson is the right man to lead the nation team back to win wai.

after loss to wale and franc, critic have start to wonder whether robinson can captain from full-back. but corri ha back robinson, who wa given the role after the injuri to fly-half jonni wilkinson, ahead of thi weekend's trip to ireland. "jason is do a tremend job. everi week my respect for him goe up," corri told bbc radio five live. "he is an inspir captain. when he talk with the squad he talk with a lot of sens. "the player have a lot of respect for him. it's an honour to be in the england side and an honour to plai under him."

england ar under immens pressur follow their poor start to the year and victori is vital if thei ar to rescu their six nation campaign. but corri insist england ar in the right frame of mind for the contest. "there is apprehens go into everi game," he ad. "but you have to us that fear and put it into a posit mindset. "when the whistl goe on sundai, what ha happen in the past doe not count for anyth.

"we have not perform but if we put in a perform on sundai then we can start turn result around. "there ar a lot of chang take place with england and we ar at the start of someth. we have not got off to the greatest of start but you need to experi the bad the befor you can fulli appreci the good."

a trip to lansdown road is daunt at ani time, especi against an ireland side that ar fly high after two impress win. thei ar the form team of the tournament and ar tip to claim their first grand slam sinc 1948. but corri is relish the prospect of take on the irish in their own backyard. "thei ar full of confid and ar plai a great team game," he said. "the forward ar creat a great platform and thei have explos runner out wide. "if you look at the team on paper, thei have star from on to 15. it's a huge task but it is a great opportun for us. "lansdown road is a tremend venu to plai in and we have to us it to our advantag."
