moodi join up with england

lewi moodi ha flown to dublin to join england's camp ahead of their rb six nation game against ireland on sundai.

despit join the squad, the leicest flanker onli ha a "slim" chanc of plai becaus of an infect in hi finger. a decis will be taken on saturdai as to whether the 26-year-old will be declar fit. if he fail to recov in time for the game, hi place at the back of the pack will be taken by andi hazel. chri jone will then start the game on the bench. "the chanc of him plai ar veri slim," said coach andi robinson. "the infect is deeper than wa thought."

moodi had to be put on a drip in an attempt to forc antibiot through hi infect finger. he suffer the cut plai against franc at twickenham and it becam infect dure a 10-minut out as a replac for leicest against newcastl last saturdai. "the mud got into it," robinson ad. "he ha had a big cours of antibiot but thei haven't done the job we hope thei would." robinson ha alreadi been forc to make on chang to the start line-up with bath prop matt steven come in for the injur phil vickeri.

the 22-year-old ha onli made 10 start for hi club but ha made 49 appear from the bench. "it can be frustrat but i've had a lot more game time thi season and i'm readi for it," steven said. "i've been on tour with these boi and i've been in the england set-up for two year so i know the call and the wai thei plai." steven will be win hi third cap on sundai after come on twice as a replac on the tour to new zealand last year.

robinson ha confirm that fly-half charli hodgson will be the first-choic kicker despit hi three miss penalti and a drop goal against franc. "charli's state of mind is veri good," said robinson. "obvious, we ar all disappoint we lost the french game and the circumst in which we did. "but he respond well last week in hi goalkick for sale and he will be our first-choic kicker thi week."

robinson also admit hi side must improv their line-out work against irish duo malcolm o'kelli and paul o'connel, on of the most effect partnership in the game. "in each game we've miss a number of line-out," he ad. "it cost us the game against wale but it ha improv. "it wa better against franc and will have to go up anoth notch against ireland. it will be a huge battl. "look at the wai thei tore us apart last year. if it doesn't function, we will be in for a torrid time."
