castaigned fire laport warn

former franc fly-half thoma castaigned ha warn the pressur is mount on coach bernard laport follow their defeat by wale.

franc suffer a shock loss against the welsh at the weekend after look on cours for an easi win. castaigned told bbc sport: "the pressur is big on laport after a huge loss to new zealand, a slim win over scotland and a miracl against england. "but the french have to get behind him and the team at lansdown road." follow victori over south africa and australia in novemb, franc were deem by mani to be the world's lead side. but thei were then trounc 45-6 by new zealand and onli just beat scotland after the scot had a try disallow in their six nation open. it then took some woeful spot kick from charli hodgson and olli barklei to help them to victori against england at twickenham. &lt;

castaigned said: "you can't sai ani of those result have eas the pressur on laport. "had england's kicker not been so bad, the posit in the six nation would be veri differ now." laport ha been criticis for franc's neg tactic in their win over scotland and england. but hi side plai a more free-flow style against wale, make a mockeri of the opposit's defenc in the first half befor suffer a shock turnaround in fortun after the interv. "all the chat in franc ha been about how franc will plai against ireland," said castaigned ahead of the 12 march tie. "everyon want to see the sort of plai we saw against wale. but everyon also want a win." castaigned, a veteran of 43 intern cap, admit the french would go in as underdog against ireland.

"go to ireland is never easi but the wai thei're plai right now, it's harder than ever," said castaigned. "thei're veri experienc and don't often lose at home. thei've got some great forward and some electr runner on the break." despit prais the irish he claim the welsh had the upper hand in the six nation run-in. "ireland have such a good pack but wale ar someth els on the break," he ad. "at the weekend thei were simpli awesom. as a frenchman it wa disappoint to see, but you had to admir it. "their commit to everi caus can make them win thi championship." the 30-year-old also tip yann delaigu to start ahead of freder michalak at number 10 after an impress displai in pari last weekend. "delaigu plai realli well and admittedli michalak plai well too," said castaigned. "i'm just glad i'm not the on who ha to make the decis."
