o'sullivan keep hi powder dry

when you ar gun for glori and ultim success keep the gunpowd dry is essenti.

ireland coach eddi o'sullivan appear to have done that quit successfulli in the run-up to thi season's six nation championship. he decre after the 2003 world cup that player should have a decent condit period dure the year. that becam a realiti at the end of last summer with a 10-week period at the start of the thi season. it mai have annoi hi scottish, and in particularli welsh, cousin who huf and puf at the disrespect appar shown to the celtic leagu. we will sai noth of mike ruddock ''poach'' eight of the dragon side that face leinster on sundai. but, like o'sullivan, he wa well within hi right, particularli when you ar talk about the nation side and pride that goe along with it. the irfu ha thrown their weight behind o'sullivan, who must be glad that in the main, there is central-control contract. bar keith gleeson who is just return from a broken leg, everyon of o'sullivan's squad is fit, fresh and stand at the och readi to launch thi season's campaign.

but i doubt whether o'sullivan is go to gloat about the handl of hi player. he is not that sort of person. howev, he mai look at the overwork and injuri-hit england, wale and franc squad whose player have been overwork, and then pat himself on the back for hi foresight. but there is still the question of turn up and transfer that fresh into posit result when the refere signal the start of the game. alreadi ireland ar be earmark as hot favourit in mani quarter to go the whole hog thi season. a first grand slam sinc karl mullen's led the team to a clean sweep in 1948. with england and franc visit lansdown road for the last time befor the old darl is pull down, everyth look perfectli place. but in the dai of yore that frighten the life out of ani irishman.

under the burden of great expect, ireland have crumpl. take the tripl crown-win side of 1985 under mick doyl. thei were expect to up the ant further for a grand slam, onli the second in ireland's histori. what happen in 1986? whitewash. you see, ireland, in ani sport, love to be downsiz. then thei can go out and prove a point to the contrari. it is the natur of the beast. but o'sullivan's side ar veri capabl of prove a salient point thi season. after their first tripl crown for 19 year, thei can live up to their success and take a further step up the ladder. o'sullivan ha kept faith and displai loyalti to hi player, and thei have repaid him in spade ... and there is more to come. he ha some old dog in hi squad, but he will come to thi season's championship with a differ box of trick, and a new verv to succe. ireland can inde succe, but just whisper it.
