saint-andr anger at absent star

sale shark director of rugbi philipp saint-andr ha re-open rugbi's club-versu-countri debat.

sale host bath in the powergen cup on fridai, but the frenchman ha endur a "difficult week" with six player awai on england's six nation train camp. "it's an import game but we've just the on full session. it's the same for everyon but we need to manag it. "if five player or more ar pick for your countri thei should move the date of the game," he told bbc sport. unless the author agre to make chang, saint-andr believ england's nation team will suffer as club opt to sign foreign and retir intern. "that's not good for the polit of the english team or for english rugbi," he argu. it is an issu he ha taken up befor, most notabl dure the autumn intern when sale lost all three zurich premiership match thei plai.

now he fear it could derail the club's hope of cup silverwar after eight player, includ captain jason robinson and fly-half charli hodgson, were awai with their countri. "we're in the quarter-final, it's alwai better to plai at home than awai and it's a great opportun," he ad. "but we have to be care. bath have just been knock out of europ and will make it a tough game. it also come at the end of a veri, veri difficult week. "sebastien bruno's been with franc, jason white with scotland and there ar six with england, that's eight player plu injuri - 13 player out of a squad of 31. "we'll have just on session togeth and will have to do our best to make that a good on on thursdai afternoon."

gloucest have also been caught in a club-versu-countri conflict after england sought a second medic opinion on jame simpson-daniel's fit. the winger is carri a shoulder injuri and the nation team manag believ he requir time on the sidelin. as a result he miss the cherri and white's quarter-final at home to bristol. "under the elit player squad agreement, england want a second opinion, which thei can do," director of rugbi nigel melvil told the gloucest citizen.

"thei obvious want him for intern rugbi and we want him for club rugbi in what is a veri import game for us. there is a conflict of interest. "the surgeon who carri out hi oper said he wa fine for us but england sai he is still vulner to be damag again and want him on a full rehab programm." simpson-daniel ad: "i've said to nigel i want to be back plai and that mean if everyth goe well thi week, i can target the worcest game (on 29 januari) for a return."
