a year to rememb for irish

there us to be on sublimin moment dure a year in irish rugbi that stood out more than most.

well, at least there us to on. now there is a hand to look back with a mixtur of satisfact, and sorrow. it ha been quit a year for the irish, and not just with eddi o'sullivan's tripl crown win intern outfit either. right down through the rank irish rugbi is creat wave and upset the more establish team in the game. but most of the kudo will go to o'sullivan and hi merri band of warrior who not onli collect their first tripl crown for 29 year, but also finish their autumn campaign with a 100% record. for the second year in success thei also finish in the runner-up spot in the rb six nation. but in the three game in novemb which includ a victori over tri-nation champion and grand slam chase south africa, ireland finsih the year on a high. the 18-12 victori at lansdown road wa onli their second victori over the bok after the initi success back in 1965. that success wa reveng for the consecut defeat in blomefontein and cape town in the summer. those two revers and the 35-17 flop against franc, were the onli dark patch in an otherwis excel 12 month. but the big on, of cours, wa the 19-13 defeat of world cup champion england on their preciou twickenham turf. the win try wa conceiv in o'sullivan's mind, perfectli execut by the team and finish immacul by girvan dempsei. for me, the try of the championship. o'sullivan's career is now in vertic take-off mode. it is no wonder that sir clive woodward ha elev the galwai-base coach to head the lion test side. not onli that, but a fair major of the present ireland side will be wear red next june in new zealand.

there can be no doubt that ireland's represent will be the biggest ever, albeit in a propos 44-man squad. in brian o'driscol and paul o'connel, ireland have now the two front-runner for the captainci. gordon d'arci, whose career began as a teenag back in 1999, final arriv when he wa name the six nation player of the tournament. but it wa not onli the senior squad that brought kudo to ireland, the youngster strut their stuff on the big stage as well. the under-21 squad confound the doubter as thei went all the wai to the world cup final in scotland onli to be beaten by a power all black side in the decid. the young irish boi had state their intent earlier in the season when thei finish runner-up to england in the six nation under-21 tournament. on the provinci front, leinster, for second year in success, blew it when the heineken cup look a good wager. while ulster finish runner-up in their veri tight group for the second season in success, it wa munster again fly the flag for the irish. look to reach their third final, thei went down 37-32 to eventu winner wasp in what mani beilev wa the most competit and thunder game ever wit at lansdown road. how wasp recov from that energi-sap duel, and then go onto to defeat toulous in the final wa anybodi's guess. ulster, meanwhil, just lost out to ad the inaugur celtic cup in win the celtic leagu when thei were pip at the post by the scarlet in the final game.

ulster, howev, took time to start the new season under new coach mark mccall. the onc famou ravenhil fortress wa breach four time as ulster onli mang five win from their first 12 out in the celtic leagu. leinster ar again look the most potent outfit go into 2005, but whether thei can take that final step under declan kidnei is anoth thing. on the down side, irish rugbi wa hit by a number of tragedi. teenag star john mccall di while plai for the ireland against new zealand in the under-19 world cup game in durban. that happen onli 10 dai after he led royal armagh to their first ulster school' cup success sinc 1977. the death of former ireland coach and lion flanker mike doyl in a car crash in northern ireland shock the rugbi fratern a larger than life charact, doyl had coach ireland to the tripl crown in 1985, the last time that goal had been achiev befor thi season. ulster rugbi also suffer the sudden death of well-known londonderri ym player jim huei, colerain's jonathan hutchinson, and belfast harlequin lock johnni pool. thei all pass awai long befor the full-time whistl.
