johnson announc june retir

former england captain martin johnson ha announc he is to retir from rugbi union at the end of the season.

johnson, who captain england to world cup glori in 2003, will plai hi final match in june. johnson won 84 england cap and quit test rugbi at the start of 2004, just two month after lead sir clive woodward's team to victori in sydnei. the 34-year-old leicest lock's final match will be hi testimoni at twickenham on 4 june. "i'm confid i have made the right decis to retir," said johnson. "i'm sure there will be time next season when i'll wish i wa out there plai for the tiger, but you know when the time is right to go and i feel thi is the right time. "i feel physic that i could plai for anoth season, but plai week in and week out in the premiership is a full-time occup and i onli want to be out there for the right reason." johnson will alwai be rever by england fan for captain england to their dramat world cup win against australia in sydnei, but hi list of achiev doe not stop at that.

he is the onli man to captain the lion twice and he also led england to a six nation grand slam. johnson also had huge success as captain of leicest, guid the tiger to back to back heineken cup victori and sever premiership titl. apart from hi marvel captainci johnson wa also on of the finest second row to ever plai the game. teak tough and physic intimid, he rule the ruck and maul for the best part of a decad and wa integr in england's rise to the top of the world game. hi final appear will be in hi testimoni at twickenham, where he will lead a team against a side captain by new zealand winger jonah lomu. the all black is aim to return to action after a kidnei transplant and johnson expect it to be a memor occas. "thi game against jonah will be a great wai to end the season and end my career," said johnson. lomu, rugbi union's first global superstar after hi exploit in the 1995 world cup, said he wa proud to be part of johnson's farewel. "we hold him in such high esteem," said lomu. "he is such a great leader and i am just honour to be on the same pitch."
