a novemb to rememb

last saturdai, on newspap proclaim that england were still the number on side in the world.

that statement wa made to look a littl foolish by event later that afternoon at twickenham. but it illustr the wonder unpredict of test rugbi at the highest level, at the end of a richli entertain autumn seri. the final weekend threw the world peck order into renew confus, with australia's triumph in london follow by franc's capitul to new zealand. "clearli, there is no number on side in the world at the moment," declar wallabi coach eddi jone on arriv back in sydnei. "there ar four, five or probabl six side all compet at the same level and on ani given dai the differ between on side and anoth is onli about 1%."

while that bode well for rugbi as a whole, it also sharpen the sens of excit ahead of what could be the most open six nation championship for a decad. while the wallabi, all black and springbok hit the beach befor turn their attent to super 12 matter in the new year, europ's finest have less than 10 week befor thei return to the intern frai. and for the first time in more than a decad, it will not simpli be a straightforward choic between england and franc for the six nation titl.

that ow much to ireland's continu progress and the belief that wale ar on the verg of deliv a major scalp to cement the promis of their autumn displai.

, who secur a first tripl crown in 19 year last season, could go on better and win their first five/six nation titl sinc 1985. thei start with awai game against itali and scotland, befor england and franc come to lansdown road.

their moment victori over the springbok can onli bolster ireland's self-belief, while ronan o'gara's late drop goal to deliv victori over argentina wa further proof that eddi o'sullivan's side can now close out tight game. not that england or franc, who have won nine of the last 10 six nation titl between them, will lai down quietli.

dismantl of the springbok suggest that even after the loss of such influenti figur as martin johnson and lawrenc dallaglio, thei still have the personnel to prosper.

the narrow defeat to australia wa a time remind that not everyth is bloom in the red rose garden, but the fresh shoot of post-world cup recoveri have been sown by new head coach andi robinson. a fresh desir to regain former height is evid, and if england emerg triumphant from an open six nation engag in cardiff, a fourth titl in six year is within reach.

ar in familiar reviv territori, but thi time it appear there is substanc behind the rediscov style.

while south africa's over-confid in cardiff made for a closer scorelin than expect, wale could legitim claim to have had victori within their grasp against the all black in on of the best test in recent memori. if mike ruddock can coax a reliabl set-piec platform from hi pack, there is no reason why victori should not ensu come februari. the last fortnight ha left

in a state of bewilder after an autumn seri that began with a superb victori over australia. a stun defeat to argentina, their first loss sinc the world cup, could have been attribut to trademark french inconsist.

but the manner of new zealand's 45-6 demolit job in pari ha coach bernard laport bemoan a lack of young talent come through to replac the old guard. fortun for the french, the open match of the six nation see them entertain

in pari. after two reason perform against australia, the scot' humbl by the springbok forc coach matt william to reassess hi belief that a win over on of the major nation wa immin. while individu such as chri cusit and ali hogg enhanc their reput, a lack of top-class player will continu to undermin their best effort.

, who start with home game against ireland and wale befor travel to scotland, ar also hope of regist more than on victori for the first time in the championship. as autumn give wai to winter and the heineken cup prepar to resum centr stage meantim, the joi of six will keep the home fire burn until februari.
