all black magic: new zealand rugbi

plai colour:

all black

the haka and more!

the all black

charl john munro discov rugbi at london's christ colleg, and on hi return to nelson he stage new zealand's first game. nelson town met nelson colleg on 14 mai, 1870, the town triumph by two goal to nil, instig a game that would becom a nation obsess and come to domin the countri's sport passion. the game appeal to the kiwi psych and quickli spread, the nativ maori find a particular empathi with the sport's warrior etho. in 1888 a british team led by ae stoddart tour new zealand and australia, and soon after a maori name joe warbrick and an english ex-pat call thoma eyton decid to gather a combin new zealand team.

twenti-two maori and four 'pakiha' form the 'new zealand nativ team,' who plai a total of 107 match in new zealand, australia and the uk. the integr of white and maori wa a reflecion of enlighten new zealand rugbi and societi, even if the british press were somewhat mystifi by the pre-match tradit of the maori war danc, the haka! the other great symbol of new zealand rugbi, the all black kit with the silver fern on the breast, wa propos by tom ellison at the first annual meet of the new zealand rugbi footbal union in 1893. new zealand plai their first intern against australia in 1903, the kiwi triumph 22-3 in sydnei, and the follow year an offici british tour team came to new zealand for the first time. the tourist had gone through australia undef but their captain, david revel bedel-sivright, creat animos in new zealand with hi patronis attitud. the kiwi shock the rugbi world with a 9-3 triumph in wellington, spark great celebr across the countri, but bedel-sivright churlishli suggest that the victor would have no chanc when thei visit the uk.

their opportun to prove him wrong came in 1905 with the first offici new zealand tour to europ. the tourist won their earli game with a quick-think, invent approach, but press critic began to grow over their 2-3-2 scrum format that left a 'rove' forward free to disrupt opposit attack. the tactic wa effect, two late tri see the kiwi to a 12-7 win over scotland, befor ireland were despatch 15-0 in dublin. a huge crowd at crystal palac convuls with laughter at the sight of the haka - but the smile were soon wipe from their face when the tourist ran in five tri in a 15-0 hammer of england. new zealand head to wale to meet a countri in the midst of it first 'golden ag,' and the encount would be the first in a seri of controversi clash between the side. an excel try on the left wing by teddi morgan seal a 3-0 win in a hard-fought encount at cardiff arm park, but post-match talk wa domin by a bob dean try that wa rule out by scottish refere john dalla. dalla said that dean wa tackl short, but the kiwi said he wa drag back into the field of plai after ground a try - on hi death-bed three year later he exclaim: "i did score that try in cardiff."

four of the 1905 all black went over to the newli form 'all gold' rugbi leagu side soon after the tour, but new zealand were strong enough to crush an anglo-welsh tour team in 1908. the first south africa tour of new zealand in 1921 saw honour share in a three-test seri, start the greatest rivalri in rugbi - and the long-run controversi between the countri over the all black' inclus of maori player. the awesom 1924-5 all black tourist becam known as 'the invinc' after win all 30 of their game in franc, britain and ireland, includ a crush 19-0 victori over wale at st helen's. despit their success, the all black' 2-3-2 scrum format left them somewhat short of possess at time, and the flaw were exploit by the springbok in south africa in 1928. emploi the modern 3-4-1 scrum line-up against the new zealand 'rover' system for the first time, south african team defeat the all black in five game and the test seri wa drawn two-all. the controversi new zealand scrum method final disappear after the 1930 lion tour (a seri won 3-1 by new zealand), the lion manag describ the tactic as 'cheat,' prompt the intern rugbi board to rule that three men had to pack down in the front row of the scrum.

the all black' 1935 european tour start inauspici with an 11-3 loss to a swansea side inspir by teenag, schoolboi half-back hayden tanner and willi davi. a thrill test at cardiff arm park went to wale 13-12, although the win try from geoffrei ree-jone wa controversi follow an illeg claud davei tackl in the build-up. new zealand's next visit to wale in 1953 prove difficult as thei lost 8-3 to cardiff and drew 6-6 at swansea. the all black were on top in the test with wale at the arm park, but the team were lock at 8-8 when a clem thoma cross kick wa gather by ken jone for a famou, match-win try. the tourist made some amend with win over the other home nation, befor a 19-5 success over the barbarian in an arm park thriller. new zealand built from that tour, and by the time thei return in 1963-4 thei were undoubtedli the lead side in the world.

that made the shock all the greater when a drop goal by student john uzzel gave newport an unlik 3-0 win over the tourist at rodnei parad. wilson whinnerai's side ralli to beat wale 6-0, their first win at the arm park in four attempt, and went unbeaten through the rest of the tour, but when thei return home the first question put to them wa: "what happen in newport?" the onli blemish on the record of the awesom 1967 tourist wa a draw with east wale, as thei beat the full wale team 13-6 in cardiff to take the lead in the seri between the countri for the first time. that lead wa increas with two comfort win for the home side in new zealand in 1969, the first time wale had tour the countri as an independ team.

a feroci game at the arm park in 1972 wa edg 19-16 by the all black, a measur of reveng for the defeat inflict on new zealand by the carwyn jame-inspir lion of 1971.

jame guid llanelli to a famou 9-3 win over the tourist at stradei park, though, and in the final game of the tour the barbarian defeat the all black 23-11 in cardiff in a game regard by mani as the greatest ever plai. new zealand defeat a wale xv 12-3 at the arm park in a non-cap game in 1974, but it wa the 1978 game in cardiff that would reignit the histori of controversi between the two countri.

wale were lead 12-10 with on minut left when andi haden flew to the floor from a line-out. televis pictur clearli show that he dive, but english refere roger quittenton wa fool and award a penalti, duli convert by brian mckechni for a 13-12 win. sinc that infam game, the competit ha larg left wale v new zealand fixtur as the men in red have slip from the pinnacl of the world game. a crush 23-3 win for new zealand in cardiff in the welsh rugbi union's 1980 centenari game wa a sign of thing to come. the new profession in the southern hemispher game that had left europ behind wa shown as the all black swat wale asid 49-6 in brisban in the semi-final of the inaugur world cup. the kiwi went on to claim the cup, and would inflict further miseri on wale on their ill-fate 1988 tour of new zealand.

a young, talent wale side left britain full of confid as tripl crown winner, but on of the greatest ever new zealand team demolish them 52-3 and 54-9. after also take some fear beat in the provinci game, wale captain jonathan davi return home call for urgent chang in the nation game, but as hi view were ignor he - along with a gener of wale' best player - chose to head north to rugbi leagu.

a 34-9 win in cardiff follow for new zealand in 1989, and at the 1995 world cup wale' big talk wa made to look embarrass as the all black eas to victori in johannesburg. a crush 42-7 kiwi triumph in wemblei follow in 1997, and as wale' miseri increas thei turn to new zealand for their salvat in the shape of coach graham henri and steve hansen. there wa a temporari resurg in the welsh game, but when an experiment new zealand side came to cardiff's new millennium stadium in 2002 thei left with a 43-17 victori.

a bruis 55-3 defeat follow for wale in hamilton in 2003 as hansen built toward the world cup, but in australia it wa a remark perform against the all black that gave hi side renew hope. wale were given no chanc go into the game, but in the cours of the match thei rediscov the valu of attack flair to lead 37-33 earli in the second half. new zealand ralli to a 53-37 win, but the style shown by wale ha been us as an inspir as thei look to a better futur. thei now face an all black team led by henri and hansen, come to europ with a weaken squad at the end of a long season. an encourag displai against south africa ha inspir a confid wale camp to believ thei can claim their first win over the men in black for over 50 year. thei have a chanc, but clearli histori is not on their side.
