wilkinson to lead england

fly-half jonni wilkinson ha been name as england's new rugbi union captain for the three novemb test.

the 25-year-old newcastl star take over from lawrenc dallaglio, who retir from intern in august. england's act head coach andi robinson said: "he is a natur leader, hold the respect of the squad and is a formid talent on the pitch. "and he consist demonstr the energi and commit i feel is essenti to be captain of england." robinson ad: "there ar sever player in the squad i would feel comfort in call upon to be england captain but for me jonni is in everi wai the right player to take on thi challeng. "captainci offer a challeng environ for ani player, especi follow in the footstep of lawrenc dallaglio and befor him the world cup captain, martin johnson.

"but i am confid jonni ha what it take to do an outstand job as we look ahead toward the next rugbi world cup in franc and i look forward to work with him." wilkinson, who ha score 817 point in 52 intern, kick the win drop-goal in the final second of extra-time in england's 2003 rugbi world cup triumph against australia. but he then miss the entir 2004 six nation campaign while recuper from shoulder surgeri, befor make hi comeback for newcastl in the zurich premiership in august. "it's the ambit of so mani player to on dai be captain of england and todai i have realis a dream," he said. "i'm honour andi want me to be hi captain, and to follow lawrenc and martin mean a lot to me as thei ar inspir men who have given so much to england rugbi over mani year.

"get my first england cap against ireland six year ago wa someth i'll never forget becaus to plai for your countri is veri special. take on the captainci is anoth import step in my career and i do so with immens pride." wilkinson made hi intern debut in the 1998 six nation championship against ireland when he came off the bench to replac paul grayson.

he ha been a regular in the england start line-up ever sinc, plai in all three lion test in 2001 and all but on of england's game in the 2003 world cup. he becom the 117th captain of england sinc fred stoke held the posit in 1871. england's first autumn test is against canada on 13 novemb, follow by the visit of tri-nation champion south africa a week later and then a world cup re-match with australia.
