dallaglio hi own man to the end

controversi and lawrenc dallaglio have never been veri far awai from each other throughout a glitter intern career.

even the end of hi nine-year career came out of the blue, just four dai befor the start of the season. but then dallaglio ha alwai been hi own man. ever sinc emerg onto the intern scene dallaglio ha polaris opinion. to support of england, dallaglio could do no wrong. an integr part of a sustain period of success for england, dallaglio's crown glori wa hi part in the side that won the rugbi world cup in 2003.

rival fan, meanwhil, have tend to take an altern view, see dallaglio as the epitom of the less agreeabl characterist of english rugbi. never afraid to speak hi mind, be it to the refere or the opposit on the pitch, or hi coach or the media off it, dallaglio ha sometim rub peopl up the wrong wai. dallaglio arriv as part of the unherald england side which becam the shock winner of the first rugbi seven world cup in 1993. it took him anoth two year to graduat to the full england xv, but onc there he prove to the manor born. displai matur and physic power beyond hi year, dallaglio rapidli establish himself as an automat choic abl to plai ani on of the three back-row posit at intern standard.

within two year of hi debut, dallaglio wa offer the england captain's band, and hi career continu to go from strength to strength as he made the 1997 lion tour to south africa. although overlook for the captainci in favour of england team-mate martin johnson, he plai a massiv role in the 2-1 seri victori. but after build up a seemingli unstopp momentum, dallaglio's career hit the buffer at speed in 1999.

first came the last-minut defeat to wale in which dallaglio's decis not to kick for goal in the dy minut wa blame for cost england a grand slam. wors wa to follow though as an infam newspap sting cost him hi treasur england captainci. with sensat alleg of drug us - of which he wa subsequ clear - splash across the front page, a devast dallaglio step down as england skipper. but he bounc back, get hi head down at club level befor return to the england fold, albeit now as a lieuten to new captain johnson. as a member of a new-look england side on the long road to world cup glori - a journei not without mishap as a success of grand slam opportun were spurn - dallaglio emerg as a kei perform onc again.

yet anoth setback arriv in 2001 as a seriou knee injuri cut short dallaglio's involv on the lion tour to australia.

rumour began to circul that hi career wa over but, in typic dallaglio style, he embark on a punish schedul of rehabilit to return an even more fearsom physic specimen. on effect of the injuri wa to rob dallaglio of much of hi pace, but ever the pragmatist, he reinvent himself as a close quarter number eight of the highest calibr.

the onli player to plai everi minut of england's world cup triumph in australia, dallaglio could hardli have done more to secur england's histor win, and for that he will alwai be held in the highest esteem by england support. follow johnson's retir, dallaglio's career came full circl as woodward restor him as england captain. while england did not hit the height in dallaglio's second spell as captain, lose five of their eight post-world cup test, dallaglio led by exampl, leav him as on of the few member of a squad lack mani world cup star to live up to expect. dallaglio walk awai from the intern game safe in the knowledg that he will go down as on of england's most accomplish player, if not on of the great captain despit hi evid pride in lead hi countri.

the problem now for england is how to replac the almost irreplac. the like of matt dawson, jonni wilkinson, phil vickeri and hill have all been mention as contend for dallaglio's role as captain. but it is as a player that england will realli struggl to replac the 32-year-old. although player like joe worslei and chri jone ar more than capabl of step up, the fact that there is no stand-out candid speak volum about dallaglio's massiv influenc on english rugbi.
