wasp 31-37 leicest

leicest withstood a stun wasp comeback to win a pulsat heineken cup encount at the causewai stadium.

the tiger storm 22-6 ahead within 18 minut through tri from lewi moodi, geordan murphi and martin corri. european champion wasp fought back through a josh lewsei try and mark van gisbergen's boot, and thei were level at 31-31 with five minut remain. but it wa the visitor who kept their cool as andi good kick the tiger to victori with a penalti and a drop goal. the close moment saw desper defenc from leicest as wasp turn down sever penalti to go for the try thei need. wasp pound the line and a penalti try look like befor refere nigel william controversi blew for full-time. fly-half good wa the tiger hero, kick 22 point in total, while leicest's overwhelm domin in the scrum ultim told. even their lack of disciplin in defenc - which present the admir van ginsberg with 26 point - could not undo them as thei held out for a famou win.

lawrenc dallaglio's team have now got it all to do in the quest for a quarter-final place given that two of their last three game ar awai - against leicest and biarritz. howev, wasp rugbi director warren gatland warn hi side will will not relinquish their european titl without a fight. "if we lose next week, then we ar struggl," said gatland. "but we don't want to give thi trophi awai. we work so hard to win it last season, we will go down fight. "we have got to get our scrum right next week, it is the biggest caus for concern." leicest coach john well salut the outstand work of graham rowntre and julian white, who were magnific up front. "thei were the backbon of our perform todai," said well. "and to score three tri against the european champion at home wa also someth i am pleas about."

van gisbergen; lewsei, erinl, abbott, voyc; king, dawson; dowd, green, green; shaw, birkett; worslei, o'connor, dallaglio (capt).

replac: got, mckenzi, lock, hart, biljon, brook, hoadlei.

murphi; rabeni, smith, gibson, healei; good, elli; rowntre, chuter, white, m johnson (capt), l deacon; moodi, back, corri.

replac (from): buckland/cockeril, morri, kai, w johnson/b deacon, h tuilagi, bemand, a tuiliagi, lloyd, vesti.
