ireland 17-12 south africa

ronan o'gara score all ireland's point as the home side claim onli their second ever win over south africa on an emot dai at lansdown road.

o'gara's first-half try, poach after a quick tap-penalti, help the irish to a 8-3 lead at half-time. three further o'gara penalti extend ireland's lead to 17-6 as the game enter the final quarter. two perci montgomeri penalti set up a frantic finish but ireland held out to claim a famou victori. ireland began strongli and were never led, but the match wa tens and close fought throughout. awar of the threat pose by the south african, ireland press hard from the outset, and plai some impress rugbi while search for a breakthrough. earli on, deni hicki thought he wa in for a try after a delight backlin move but shane horgan's pass wa adjudg to have gone forward by refere paul honiss.

ireland continu to press and thei show their intent by opt for a line-out in the 19th minut when three straight-forward point were on offer. anoth south african infring a minut later led to ireland's first point - o'gara took a quick tap-penalti and charg over the opposit line for an irish try. the springbok could feel hard done by as captain john smit had hi back to the plai when o'gara pounc after refere honiss had told the skipper to warn hi own player after consist infring. stung by the score, the south african almost repli with a try of their own within 60 second with geordan murphi's ankl-tap tackl deni a certain try for perci montgomeri. howev, the springbok did win a penalti a minut later which montgomeri easili slot to cut ireland's lead to 5-3.

ireland got out of jail when the south african had a three-to-on overlap near the irish line onli to wast the chanc. after the sustain springbok pressur, the irish produc an attack of their own in the 34th minut which culmin with o'gara's clever drop-goal to restor hi side's lead to five point which remain the margin at half-time. sustain irish pressur immedi after half-time wa reward by anoth o'gara penalti. howev, montgomeri respond quickli by slot over a superb penalti from near the right touchlin to cut ireland's lead to five point again. montgomeri then burst through the irish defenc in the 48th minut and it took a superb girvan dempsei tackl to prevent a try. the south african suffer a doubl-blow in the 52nd minut when schalk burger wa sin-bin for the second week in a row after kill the ball and o'gara punish the transgress by notch anoth penalti.

in the 61st minut, hicki wa left frustrat by a poor pass from girvan dempsei as a chanc to seal the match wa wast. howev, a late tackl on brian o'driscol enabl o'gara to notch anoth penalti in the 63rd minut which extend ireland's lead to 17-6. howev, two montgomeri penalti had ireland's lead in peril again as the springbok close to within five point with seven minut remain. south africa produc a huge effort in the close minut but ireland held on to claim a deserv victori.

g dempsei; g murphi, b o'driscol (capt), s horgan, d hicki; r o'gara, p stringer; r corrigan, s byrn, j hay, m o'kelli, p o'connel, s easterbi, j o'connor, a folei.

f sheahan, m horan, d o'callaghan, e miller, g easterbi, d humphrei, k magg.

: p montgomeri; b pauls, m joubert, de wet barri, a willems, j van der westhuyzen; f du preez; o du randt, j smit (captain), e andrew, b botha, v matfield, s burger, aj venter, j van niekerk.

: h shimang, cj van der lind, g britz, d rossouw, m claassen, j de villier, g du toit/j fouri.

paul honiss (new zealand)
