ireland v usa (sat)

saturdai 20 novemb

lansdown road, dublin

1300 gmt

the irish coach know a repeat of the record 83-3 victori over the state in 2000 is not on the agenda and expect a real test at lansdown road. "their coach tom billup will have them veri organis," said o'sullivan. "thei ran five tri past the french in the summer, so we will not take them for grant. we have gui come into the team who ar chomp at the bit." the irish line-up show nine chang from the team which start against south africa with winger tommi bow and flanker deni leami make their intern debut. the other chang see recal for back david humphrei, kevin magg and gui easterbi with eric miller, marcu horan, donnacha o'callaghan and frank sheehan all return to the pack.

o'sullivan said the player come in had the opportun to stake claim for inclus against argentina on 27 novemb. easterbi get a rare start at scrum-half while humphrei, now effect ronan o'gara's deputi at fly-half, win hi 65th cap. "we have got to get the focu right on the dai," said ulster man humphrei. "the us mai be class as weaker opposit, but we will treat them with the respect thei deserv." the state lost 39-31 against franc in their last intern and ar rank 16th in world rugbi. the american have made three chang, plu on posit switch from the game in juli against the french. lock alec parker, blind-side flanker brian surgen and right wing al lakomski return and captain kort schubert of the cardiff blue shift to number eight. schubert is the onli eagl player remain from the side' meet four year ago.

g murphi; s horgan, b o'driscol (capt), k magg, t bow; d humphrei, g easterbi; m horan. f sheahan, j hay, d o'callaghan, p o'connel, s easterbi, d leami, e miller.

s byrn, s best, l cullen, a folei, p stringer, r o'gara, g dempsei.

viljoen; lakomski, emerick, sika, fee, hercu, timoteo; macdonald, wyatt, waasdorp, parker, klerck, surgen, petruzzella, schubert (capt).

hobson, osentowski, gouw, mo'unga, william, sherman, tuipulotu.
