ireland call up uncap campbel

ulster scrum-half kieran campbel is on of five uncap player includ in ireland's rb six nation squad.

campbel is join by ulster colleagu roger wilson and ronan mccormack along with connacht's bernard jackman and munster's shaun payn. gordon d'arci is back after injuri while munster flanker alan quinlan also return to intern consider. "the squad is select pure on form. a lot of player put their hand up," coach eddi o'sullivan told bbc sport. "kieran campbel wa just on of those player. he ha been plai veri well in the heineken cup and deserv hi call-up. "there is big competit in some depart and not so much in other. there were on or two player who were unfortun just to miss out." back-row forward david wallac and victor costello ar omit, with o'sullivan have quinlan, wilson, simon easterbi, anthoni folei, deni leami and johnni o'connor vy for the three posit.

with david humphrei, kevin magg, simon best and tommi bow again includ, it is ulster's biggest represent in a train panel for quit some time. munster and leinster have 12 and 11 player in the squad respect while jackman is the sole connacht repres. four british-base player ar also includ. ulster forward ronan mccormack said he wa "total shock" to be includ. "i'm realli look forward to it," said mccormack. "i plai with gui like brian o'driscol and deni hicki back in my school dai in leinster so i do know a few of them although not that well. "it will be great to work with them."

s best (ulster), s byrn (leinster), r corrigan (leinster), l cullen (leinster), s easterbi (llanelli), a folei (munster), j hay (munster), m horan (munster), b jackman (connacht), d leami (munster), e miller (leinster), r mccormack (ulster), d o'callaghan (munster), p o'connel (munster), j o'connor (wasp), m o'kelli (leinster), f sheahan (munster), r wilson (ulster), a quinlan (munster).

t bow (ulster), k campbel (ulster), g d'arci (ulster), g dempsei (leinster), g duffi (harlequin), g easterbi (leinster), d hicki (leinster), a horgan (munster), s horgan (leinster), d humphrei (ulster), k magg (ulster), g murphi (leicest), b o'driscol, (leinster), r o'gara (munster), s payn (munster), p stringer (munster).

k gleeson (leinster), t how (ulster), j kelli (munster), n mcmillan (ulster).
