ireland 21-19 argentina

an injuri-time drop goal by ronan o'gara stole victori for ireland from underneath the nose of argentina at lansdown road on saturdai.

o'gara kick all of ireland's point, with two drop goal and five penalti, to give the home side a 100% record in their autumn intern. an impress argentina appear in control until the dy second. the puma shock the irish earli on with a try from federico aramburu, and felip contepomi kick 14 point. the well-drill and sharper puma out-plai and out-thought ireland in the earli stage. indisciplin allow argentina's leinster fly-half contepomi to open the score in the third minut with a straightforward penalti. he wa on the mark again two minut later when argentina shock a rag ireland with the first try of the game. ireland turn the ball over and manuel contepomi broke through an unstructur defenc befor feed hi midfield partner aramburu to sprint in under the post. o'gara final got ireland on the board with a drop goal in the ninth minut onli for contepomi to rifl over hi second penalti two minut later. plai into a strong wind and rain, ireland continu to come second best in tight situat, and turnov began to mount up against a rug defenc. o'gara manag to land hi second penalti in the 36th minut, but onc again contepomi repli in kind four minut into first-half injuri time. the second-half start as the first had end. o'gara rifl over anoth penalti in the 45th minut, but contepomi match it three minut later. the upper-bodi strength of the puma never allow ireland to take control up front, while the three-quarter had no space to manoeuvr. ireland had to reli on o'gara's boot to keep in touch rather than ani contriv run plai. the munsterman land two more penalti - on of them from 48 metr - to bring hi team to within four point with 13 minut on the clock remain. and ireland's chanc came when argentina's number eight gonzalo longo wa yellow card with six minut to go for an offenc in the line-out. o'gara made no mistak as he rifl over hi fifth penalti to set up a tens final few minut. but ireland show great composur to get themselv into a posit to allow o'gara to thump over a massiv drop goal to complet a tremend, if fortuit, comeback.

