barbarian 19-47 new zealand

new zealand prove too strong for an australian-domin barbarian to round off their unbeaten northern hemispher tour with an easi win.

rico gear ran in two of the all black' seven tri in what wa a predominantli second-string line-up. the baa-baa did threaten, score tri through albert van den bergh, xavier rush and andrea lo cicero, but never look like win. all black aaron mauger wa in good form with the boot, ad 10 point. the all black featur onli two of the side which start last weekend's emphat test victori over franc in pari, while the baa-baa had nine wallabi in their start line-up. and new zealand coach graham henri said: "it wa a qualiti perform against a veri experienc side and a number of young gui came through veri well. "thei learnt from the older player and thi wa a wai of thank the gui who had been mentor them on the tour." but the run rugbi the crowd had been hope for rare materialis. marti holah got the all black onslaught under wai with hi fifth-minut try befor rush hit back moment later. but new zealand went ahead onc more as gear made us of the space vacat by a temporarili injur chri latham to slide in. ma'a nonu then found hi wai through the barbarian defenc to give hi side a 19-7 half-time lead. the host fail to ignit in the second half and, the moment gear score hi second just after the interv, there wa onli ever go to be on winner. lo cicero, the sole european for the barbarian, bundl over for a try to briefli curtail the deficit. but the match wa blight by controversi moment later when justin marshal, wa fell with a high tackl by jimmi cowan. refere andi turner wave plai on and casei laulala coast in for hi side's fifth try. jermo keino and piri weepu both ad tri to the all black' talli befor the final whistl, while van den bergh gain some consol for the baa-baa. after the match, barbarian coach bob dwyer warn that south african flanker schalk burger need a proper off-season break to maintain hi standard. burger, 21, wa recent crown player of the year by both hi peer and the intern rugbi board, but ha struggl for form in recent week. "it's hi first year at that level and he wa phenomen up until the end of the southern hemispher season. "i don't think he's plai anywher near that level on tour," he said.
