dawson win england squad recal

wasp scrum-half matt dawson ha been recal to england's train squad ahead of the rb six nation and been reinstat in the elit player squad.

coach andi robinson drop dawson for the autumn test after he miss train to film 'a question of sport.' "i alwai said i would consid bring matt back if i felt he wa plai well," robinson said. "he merit hi return on current form." newcastl's 18-year-old centr mathew tait is also in the train squad. "it's obvious an honour to be ask to train with england," said tait, who ha burst into content recent. "i look forward to go down and do the session, but the most import thing at the moment is sundai's game against newport, so i'm not look ani further than that." robinson ha invit 42 player to attend a three-dai session in leed next week, in which hi squad will train in part with the leed rhino rugbi leagu squad.

with mike tindal rule out of the open two match and will greenwood sidelin for the entir six nation, tait is on of six or seven contend for the two centr berth. stuart abbott, jami noon, olli smith, olli barklei and henri paul - who retain hi place despit hi earli substitut against australia - ar also in the mix. ben cohen could also be consid after switch from the wing for hi club northampton recent. prop phil vickeri and lock simon shaw both return to the squad after miss the autumn test through injuri, while wasp wing tom voyc is recal. the group also includ bath flanker andi beatti and leicest hooker georg chuter. "beatti ha matur greatli as a player these past two season," robinson said. jonni wilkinson, tindal and martin corri have all been includ despit their unavail for the open two match against wale and franc.

the revis 56-man elit squad includ wasp hooker phil green, who replac the retir mark regan, and sale wing mark cueto. cueto wa select for the novemb intern despit not be part of the group, but score four tri in three england appear. leicest scrum-half harri elli ha also been promot from the senior nation academi, and will contest the number nine jersei with dawson and gloucest's andi gomarsal. the player in robinson's elit squad can onli plai 32 match for club and countri. thei can be call up for a total of 16 train dai in addit to the recognis intern week for each of the year lead up to the next world cup.

balshaw, cohen, cueto, lewsei, robinson, simpson-daniel, voyc, abbott, noon, paul, smith, tait, tindal, barklei, hodgson, king, wilkinson, dawson, elli, gomarsal.

chuter, thompson, titterrel, rowntre, sheridan, steven, vickeri, white, borthwick, brown, l deacon, grewcock, kai, shaw, beatti, corri, forrest, hazel, jone, moodi, vyvyan, j worslei.

abbott, balshaw, borthwick, a brown, chuter, cohen, corri, cueto, dawson, elli, flatman, gomarsal, green, greenwood, grewcock, hazel, hill, hodgson, kai, king, lewsei, moodi, noon, paul, robinson, rowntre, shaw, simpson-daniel, thompson, tindal, titterrel, vickeri, vyvyan, white, wilkinson, j worslei, m worslei.

barklei, beatti, christoph, l deacon, forrest, c jone, palmer, ree, sheridan, skinner, smith, steven, tait, voyc.

dowson, haughton, mony, roqu, p sanderson.
