border 19-20 ulster

ulster clung on for a moral-boost celtic leagu win over bottom club border at netherdal on fridai night.

a late try by border substitut jonni weston had set up a dramat finish, but the scottish side could not complet the fightback. ulster had led 20-6 with tri from paul steinmetz and bryn cunningham. but the irish provinc fail to add to the talli in the second half and end up reliev to get the win to lift them to eighth place in the tabl. border had edg ahead with a sixth-minut penalti by charli hore - onli to hand the visitor the initi via a gift try. calum macra surrend possess befor centr steinmetz sent a chip into the danger zone. substitut joe pattison - who had come on for the injur gareth morton - wrongli thought the ball wa trickl out of plai and eas up on the chase.

the speedi steinmetz had other idea and he race up to get the vital touch in the nick of time, give adam larkin an easi convers. alli warnock claw back three point for border, but thei were soon hit by anoth doubl-blow. first, mark blair wa yellow card for kill the ball on the ground and then full-back cunningham bag the second touchdown in the wake of fine work by skipper andi ward. larkin again ad the extra. even wors wa to come for border when larkin kick two more penalti just befor the break, the second of which also led to kelli brown be sin-bin. the host gave themselv a glimmer of hope immedi after the restart, howev, when warnock struck a penalti at the other end. and he repeat the feat to set up the tens final. ulster coach mark mccall said he wa delight to get the victori. "border ar a tougher proposit thi year in spite of the fact that thei have not had a victori in some time," said mccall. "in the first 20 minut we were edgi but in the second 20 minut we plai some of our best rugbi thi season and score two good tri."

morton, moffat, macra, hore, berthinussen, warnock, moor, thomson, ford, dougla, blair, stewart, grai, brown, mcente.

kai, parr, mcgee, rennick, weston, millar, pattison.

cunningham, maxwel, bell, steinmetz, how, larkin, campbel, s. best, shield, moor, frost, mccullough, ward, feather, n. best.

bradi, mccormick, longwel, brown, doak, s. young, bow.

phil fear (wru)
