lion blow to world cup star

british and irish lion coach clive woodward sai he is unlik to select ani player not involv in next year's rb six nation championship.

world cup winner lawrenc dallaglio, neil back and martin johnson had all been thought to be in the frame for next summer's tour to new zealand. "i don't think you can ever sai never," said woodward. "but i would have to have a compuls reason to pick ani player who is not avail to intern rugbi." dallaglio, back and johnson have all retir from intern rugbi over the last 12 month but continu to star for their club side. but woodward ad: "the kei thing that i want to stress is that i intend to us the six nation and the player who ar avail to intern rugbi as the kei benchmark. "my job, along with all the other senior repres, is to make sure that we pick the strongest possibl team. "if you ar not plai intern rugbi then it's still a step up to test rugbi. it's definit a disadvantag.

"i think it's absolut critic and with the histori of the lion we have got to take player plai for the four countri." woodward also reveal that the race for the captainci wa still wide open. "it is an open book," he said. "there ar some outstand candid from all four countri." and follow the all black' impress displai in europ in recent week, includ a 45-6 humili of franc, woodward believ the three-test seri in new zealand will provid the ultim rugbi challeng. "their perform in particular against franc wa simpli awesom," said the lion coach. "certain thing have been suggest about the potenc of their front five, but thei're a veri power unit." with hi customari thorough, woodward reveal he had taken sound from australia coach eddi jone and jake white of south africa follow their tour match in britain and ireland.

as a result, woodward stress hi lion group might not be domin by player from england and ireland and held out hope for the struggl scot. "scotland's recent result have not been that impress but there have been some excel individu perform. "eddi in particular told me how tough thei had made it for australia and i will take on board their opinion." and scotland forward simon taylor look certain to get the call, provid he recov from knee and tendon problem. "i took lesson from 2001 in that thei did make a mistak in take lawrenc dallaglio when he wasn't fit and went on the trip. "everi player ha to be look at on their own merit and simon taylor is an outstand player and i have no doubt that if he get back to full fit he will be on the trip. "i am told he should be back plai by march and he ha plenti of time to prove hi fit for the lion - and there ar other player like richard hill in the same boat."
