healei target england comeback

leicest wing austin healei hope to us sundai's return heineken cup clash with wasp as a further springboard to an england recal for the six nation.

healei, who won 51 cap prior to the 2003 world cup, ha been in good form in the tiger' resurg thi season. "i definit still have ambit to plai for england," healei told the bbc. "we will have to see what happen after the previou (autumn) test but when i look at the current squad i definit feel there is a place there for me." healei, who ha also plai both half-back posit and full-back dure hi career, ha revert to the wing, where he won most of hi england cap. after recov from a trap nerv in hi back sustain at the end of septemb, the 31-year-old is relish hi role in the tiger reviv. "i had six week out but fortun i have resum the sort of form i had befor," he said.

"i am basic plai where it best suit leicest. obvious i can plai scrum-half, fly-half or full-back at a moment's notic. "but plai on the wing actual give me a bigger free role to come in where i am not expect and influenc thing." that ha been appar in part on and two of the wasp-leicest trilogi in recent week. first, healei came off hi flank with an angl run to score an injuri-time try that earn the tiger a 17-17 draw in their premiership meet on 21 novemb. then, in the first of their heineken cup doubl header last sundai, healei slot in at stand-off and deliv a superb cross-kick for martin corri to score the tiger' third try. "i caught 'cozza's' ey a coupl of phase befor that and wa hope to get it to him on the full, but fortun even with the bounc he manag to score," healei recal.

healei, twice a heineken cup winner, believ last sundai's match wa "up there" with some of the biggest club contest he ha plai in. "it wa a veri intens occas and a veri destruct game," he recal. "there wa not a huge amount of rugbi plai but it wa a great game to be involv in. "after about 15 minut i thought we might stride awai with it but wasp realli came back into it and in the last coupl of minut it could have gone either wai."

the same outcom thi sundai would put leicest in pole posit to top their heineken pool with a home game against biarritz and awai trip to calvisano to come. but healei insist the tiger must summon the same desir if thei ar to deliv the knockout blow in what ha been dub "rugbi's version of rocki ii". "there wa a lot of satisfact in the dress room afteward but it is realli onli a case of a job half done," he ad. "it wa the first of a two-leg trip and if we lose at welford road it will negat all the posit we can take from result. "i think it came down to who want it more and in the end i think we did. we have got to show the same desir again thi week."
