pari promis rais welsh hope

ha there been a better six nation match than saturdai's epic in pari?

and can the welsh reviv continu all the wai to a first grand slam sinc 1978? those ar the two question occupi not just wale support but rugbi fan as a whole after a scintil displai in pari. welsh legend mervyn davi, a member of two of three grand slam-win side of the 1970s, hail it as "on of the great perform of the past three decad". martyn william, wale' two-try scorer on the dai, call it "on of the most surreal game i have ever plai in". a crestfallen franc coach, bernard laport, simpli observ: "there wa a french half and there wa a welsh half". and what a half it wa for the red dragonhood, transform a 15-6 half-time deficit into an 18-15 lead within five mesmeris minut of the second period. but while that passag of plai show the swell self-belief of a side prepar to back it own spirit of adventur, the final quarter told us a whole lot more about thi welsh side. that thei recov from a batter in the first half-hour to first stem the tide befor half-time, then revers it on the resumpt, wa remark enough. but in resist a seemingli unstopp wave of french pressur in a nail-bite final five minut, wale show not onli their physic attribut but their mental resolv.

in intern rugbi, ani of the top seven side can beat each other on a given dai, but the great side ar those that win the close contest on a consist basi. england suffer some infam six nation disappoint en rout to world cup glori, the pain of defeat forg bond that ultim led to victori when it realli matter. wale have some wai to go befor thei can be remot consid in a similar light. but the sign ar that player previous on the receiv end ar learn how to emerg on the right side of the scorelin. ten of the 22 on duti on saturdai were also involv when wale were trounc 33-5 in pari two year ago. but sinc thei threw off the shackl against new zealand in the 2003 world cup, wale have rediscov much of what made them a great rugbi nation in the first place.

"the confid in the squad ha been build and build sinc the world cup and we now have young player who ar becom world class," note coach mike ruddock. the like of michael owen, gethin jenkin, dwayn peel and gavin henson ar certainli build strong case for inclus on thi summer's lion tour to new zealand. and player like stephen jone, martyn william, shane william and gareth thoma ar prove it is not onli the youngster that ar on an upward curv. jone, after hi superb man-of-the-match displai, observ that "we ar a veri happi camp now". ruddock and thoma can take much of the credit for that, ensur the tribal and region divis that have often scar welsh rugbi do not extend to the nation squad. the

joie de vivr

so evid in that magic second-half spell in pari also stem from a style of plai that first woo support the world over in the 1970s.

if england had half the innat attack exuber wale have produc in thi championship, thei would not be contempl the debri of three consecut defeat. similarli, wale have learnt that style alon doe not win match, and that forward power, mental tough and good decis-make under pressur ar equal import. so on to murrayfield, where wale have not won on their last three visit. while the hype in the princip will go into overdr, the player will set about the task of beat scotland. onli then - with the visit of ireland to finish - can thei start think about emul the hallow player of the 1970s, and write their own name into welsh legend.
