sculthorp want lion captainci

paul sculthorp ha admit he would love to succe andi farrel as great britain skipper if the wigan star doe switch code to rugbi union.

sculthorp wa vice-captain in the tri-nation, and took the st helen captainci from chri joynt last year. "i would definit want the job - i make no bone about it," sculthorp told bbc sport. "it's someth i've alwai want to do. i'd gladli take it if it wa offer to me."

the 27-year-old, who captain st helen to challeng cup success last year, said follow in the footstep of farrel would be a challeng. "andi would be a hard act to follow but it's someth i'm confid of be up to," he said. "the gb team isn't a on-man team. there ar a lot of good young player who ar push for place anywai."

sculthorp said the rugbi leagu world would understand if farrel did decid to move to rugbi union. "it's a short career and you have to make of it what you can," said sculthorp. "nobodi can blame him if he doe go - he's done everyth in the game of rugbi leagu.

"financi it could set him up for life. if he fanci a new challeng, then who could fault him?" sculthorp also call on the rugbi leagu author to have a seriou look at the number of game the top player ar be ask to plai. sean long, sculthorp's saint and lion team-mate, ha express doubt about hi intern futur "i think sean's situat is to do with the sheer number of game we're plai," he said.

"the wai he's look at it is that if he can extend hi career by a coupl of year by not plai intern rugbi, then he's will to do that. "the rfl ha got to do someth about the fixtur. we're plai 42 week of the year and it's too much. "a lot of the niggli injuri that i've suffer with over the last coupl of year have come about becaus of the lack of rest time." st helen have been strongli link with a move for brilliant young forward sonni bill william, and sculthorp said he would love the 19-year-old to come to knowslei road. "he's a great player - a big strong lad who can certainli hit hard in defenc, but who is also veri skil," he said. "i'd love him to come to st helen. who know what might happen? but you want the best player in your team, and he's certainli on of the best player in the world."
