wale hail new superstar

on game into hi six nation career, and gavin henson is alreadi a welsh legend.

a mesmer displai against england, top off by hi howitz of a match-win penalti, ha secur life membership of that particular club. at 23, henson ha the rugbi world at hi silver-boot feet. and if hi natur self-assur and swagger is share by hi wale team-mate, then a full-blown reviv could be more than just a lot of hot air drift up from the vallei. the "red dragonhood" subdu the "red rose armi" in most area of the field, but henson's stellar perform ensur their effort yield the win thei crave abov all other. he announc himself in the game's open salvo with a "welcom to cardiff" greet for mark cueto on the gain line. and hi defenc wa a major featur of the match, hi princip victim poor old, or rather young, mathew tait. the england centr will have spent hi 19th birthdai on sundai shudder at the memori of how he wa up-end not just onc, but twice, by henson's all-envelop tackl.

the second time, after the interv, singl-handedli lift the record millennium stadium crowd at a time when england were start to show menac. show awesom strength, henson nonchantli held the bewild debut in mid-air, a master predat toi with hi helpless prei, savour the kill. hi kick game also prosper, particularli when he move to full-back for 10 minut either side of half-time when hi captain gareth thoma wa in the sin-bin. on huge clearanc from tait's kick sent england retreat rapidli while anoth boom punt to the right corner kept the visitor pin in their own half. henson wa also creativ personifi: on littl chip ahead for shane william narrowli miss it target; a precis cross-kick forc jami noon to fumbl the ball into touch. he also had a hand in the game's onli try, finish superbl by william, and might have score himself on the half-hour as he glide into space, onli to be scrag by tait. henson wa twice repel as wale laid sieg to the english line after charli hodgson's penalti had edg the visitor in front for the first time. but he wa not to be deni as the crescendo rose to a deafen din, and the outcom of the match fell to him. replac gareth cooper made the most of a poor welsh scrum by chip into space, where jason robinson wa penalis for hold on in the tackl.

five metr in from the right touchlin, 44 metr out, it wa not a kick stephen jone, who had seen a long-rang effort fall agonisingli under the bar, would have approach with confid. "it wa out of steve's rang but i look at gavin, and he gave me a reassur nod," said thoma. henson, survei hi date with destini, posit relish the respons, and the chanc to make himself a hero. without further ado, he nervelessli slot the kick that end five year of english domin and 12 year of wait in cardiff. "i knew i wa go to get it befor i even took the kick," he said later, hi distinct spikei lock freshli gell into an appropri star shape. "i have been get them from that distanc all year so it wasn't a problem." there were still four minut for wale to hold out, and the frenzi wa such that henson could not even hear jone shout instruct at him from three yard awai. but it wa wale who finish the game on the attack, almost snatch a second try in a thunder climax. "just do it" implor the front page headlin on saturdai's western mail newspap. and, thank to henson, wale did.
