celt savour grand slam prospect

the six nation ha herald a new order in northern hemispher rugbi thi year and wale and ireland rather than tradit big gun franc and england face a potenti grand slam plai-off in three week' time.

but befor that game in cardiff, wale must get past scotland at murrayfield, while ireland face the not insignific task of a home fixtur with the mercuri french. no-on know what mood franc will be in at lansdown road on 12 march - sublim, as in the first half against wale, or ridicul, like in the same period against england at twickenham. but how the mighti have fallen. england sat on rugbi's summit 15 month ago as world champion and 2003 grand slam winner. but thei have lost nine of their 14 match sinc that headi night in sydnei. and thei face the ignomini of what could amount to a wooden spoon plai-off against itali in a fortnight.

england ar endur their worst run in the championship sinc captain richard hill wa dump in favour of mike harrison after three straight loss in 1987. coach andi robinson, who took over from the success sir clive woodward in septemb, ha lost a phalanx of world cup star. and he is endur the toughest of teeth problem in bed down hi own style with a new team. the same year that england rule the roost, a woeful wale lost all five match in the six nation. and thei won onli two game, against scotland and itali, in 2004. wale' most recent championship titl wa in 1994, and their last grand slam success came in 1978 in the era of gareth edward, phil bennett, jpr william et al.

but welsh rugbi fan remain on perman tenterhook for the blossom of a new golden ag. after sever fals dawn, coach mike ruddock mai have come up with the team and philosophi to match expect. the fresh verv is inspir by skipper gareth thoma, now out with a broken thumb, accur kick from either fly-half stephen jone or centr gavin henson, a rampant martyn william lead the wai up front, and excit runner in the guis of henson and shane william. ireland coach eddi o'sullivan and captain brian o'driscol have got their side buzz too, and thei ar close to shed the "nearli-men" tag that ha dog them for the past few year. the men from the emerald isl have been six nation runner-up for the past two year, to franc and england.

but thei have not won the titl sinc 1985 and last clinch a grand slam in 1948. as for scotland, thei have struggl thi decad and the 2004 wooden spoon "winner" have not been in the top two sinc thei lift the titl in 1999. itali continu the elus search for their first six nation awai win, and can still onli account for the scalp of scotland (twice) and wale sinc join the elit in 2000. coach john kirwan is a passion and dedic believ in the azzurri, but is lack in raw materi. and so to franc. brilliant on minut, inept the next. but the reign champion could quit easili turn on the style in dublin and end up win the titl through the back door. ireland, though, have won three time in their last five meet. welsh romant would probabl prefer a gloriou victori in the celtic showdown to crown their grand slam. but given that ireland have beaten wale in four of their last five meet, the welsh legion ar like to be behind le bleu on 12 march.
