ireland win eclips refere 'error'

the intern rugbi board mai have to step in to stop frustrat coach and player from publicli harangu refere when thing go belli-up.

it mai have to go the whole wai and have nfl-style video camera all over the field, or slap the vocifer perpetr over the knuckl. what the irb doe not want is a footbal scenario where the verbal slang match often overshadow the game itself. sundai's explos six nation clash at lansdown road wa a good exampl as ireland took anoth step toward their first grand slam sinc 1948. the game wa as excit as it come, with a much-improv england side enrag at a few decis that did not go their wai. on can understand that frustrat. there wa no doubt that ireland had the rub of the green in their 19-13 victori, but the reaction from the england camp mai not have endear them to the sport's "blazer". refere jonathan kaplan wa not perfect by ani mean and two decis in particular made him the villain of the piec. i doubt whether kaplan would have been too pleas at the comment made. after all, he ha no public recours to critic.

it wa the same for simon mcdowel, the touch judg who wa heavili criticis by scotland coach matt william after their defeat against franc. as far as england were concern, there were queri over mark cueto's first half-effort when he went over in the corner from a charli hodgson kick.

england coach andi robinson refer to a similar case at ravenhil in januari when ulster were plai gloucest in the heineken cup. on that occas, david humphrei kick to tommi bow, who touch down in the corner onli for the try to be wipe out. but you cannot have camera at everi conceiv angl to pick up such anomali. perhap robinson wa right to sai the refere should have gone upstair when josh lewsei wa driven over the irish line near the end.

lewsei claim he touch it down and wa in full control. howev, on ha to credit ireland flanker johnni o'connor for cleverli scoop the ball awai and block ani evid of a touchdown. but in rugbi, everyth tend to even out over the 80 minut. the refere also miss england's danni grewcock take out ronan o'gara off the ball to allow martin corri a sundai stroll to the line. those were the stand-out moment in a classic game between the two old foe.

but there were mani more, and on should not take awai from those. brian o'driscol's win try wa as well-conceiv as thei come, while charli hodgson's brilliant kick displai wa anoth highlight. and ronan o'gara's tremend abil to control the game wa also a crucial compon. but the defin moment came with ireland under the cosh in the final 15 minut. two outstand piec of defens plai deni england and allow ireland to hold on. the first wa deni hicki's brilliant doubl tackl in the right-hand corner. he gobbl up cueto from anoth hodgson cross-field kick, then regain hi feet to stop lewsei from score a certain try. ireland's second-row colossu paul o'connel wa equal superb. england had turn ireland on wai then the other, and the defenc cordon wa slowli disintegr. england prop matt steven ran in at full steam to suck in a few more tackler. unfortun he ran into o'connel who hit him hard - veri hard - and then wrestl the ball awai for a crucial turnov. that spoke volum about ireland's back-foot displai, with defens coach mike ford take a bow at the end. to win a game like that show that ireland have move forward. it mai be tri that win game, but it is defenc that win championship.
