ireland 19-13 england

ireland consign england to their third straight six nation defeat with a stir victori at lansdown road.

a second-half try from captain brian o'driscol and 14 point from ronan o'gara kept ireland on track for their first grand slam sinc 1948. england score first through martin corri but had "tri" from mark cueto and josh lewsei disallow. andi robinson's men have now lost nine of their last 14 match sinc the 2003 world cup final. the defeat also herald england's worst run in the championship sinc 1987. ireland last won the titl, then the five nation, in 1985, but 20 year on thei share top spot in the tabl on maximum point with wale. and eddi o'sullivan's side banish the ghost of 2003 when england were rampant 42-6 victor in claim the grand slam at lansdown road. in front of a supercharg home crowd on a dry but blusteri dai in dublin, ireland tore into the white-shirt visitor from the kick-off and made their intent clear when o'gara land a fourth-minut drop-goal.

england took their time to settl but their first real ventur into ireland's half produc a simpl score for corri. the number eight pick up the ball from the back of a ruck and found an absenc of green jersei between himself and the irish line, race 25 yard to touch down. england fly-half charli hodgson nail the convers from out on the left, but almost immedi o'gara, win hi 50th cap, answer with two penalti in quick success. england were award a penalti of their own on the halfwai line after 20 minut, and hodgson, the villain at twickenham, coolli bisect the post. the first quarter wa mark by period of tactic kick, but it wa ireland who were show more willing to spread the ball wide to their eager and invent back. a seri of probe led by the talisman o'driscol, back from hamstr injuri, result in a penalti but ireland chose to kick for touch.

from the line-out, the ball wa recycl back to o'gara, who stroke hi second drop-goal, thi time off the right upright. as the interv approach, wing josh lewsei wa the catalyst for england's most promis attack. the wasp star race up hi touchlin and hodgson's cross-kick put in mark cueto for an appar score, but the sale wing wa rule to have start in front of the kicker. england began the second half well and had ireland pin in their own half. but anoth english indiscret on a rare irish break-out award o'gara a kick at goal, which he miss. england's pressur continu, and a wave of attack saw centr jami noon drag down yard from the line befor hodgson land a drop-goal.

the lead wa shortliv, howev. ireland race upfield, deft handl from the back, includ a clever dummi from geordan murphi on hodgson, end with o'driscol go over in the right corner and touch down close to the post. o'gara miss a penalti which would have put ireland nine point clear, and the home crowd breath a sigh of relief when hodgson's cross-kick wa fumbl by lock ben kai near the line. anticip of a home win sent the nois level sky-high, but o'gara miss anoth chanc to seal the game with a wayward drop-goal attempt. insid the last 10 minut, england pour forward, spur on by scrum-half matt dawson, who replac leicest's harri elli. but despit on near miss with the pack over the line - not check on the tv replai by refere jonathan kaplan - england were unabl to pull off a face-save win. ireland next face franc at lansdown road in two week' time befor the potenti titl decid against wale in cardiff. england ar still to meet itali at twickenham, in what is now a wooden spoon decid, and scotland.

g murphi; g dempsei, b o'driscol, s horgan, d hicki; r o'gara, p stringer; r corrigan, s byrn, j hay; m o'kelli, p o'connel; s easterbi, j o'connor, a folei.

f sheahan, m horan, d o'callaghan, e miller, g easterbi, d humphrei, k magg.

j robinson (capt); m cueto, j noon, o barklei, j lewsei; c hodgson, h elli; g rowntre, s thompson, m steven; d grewcock, b kai; j worslei, l moodi, m corri.

a titterrel, d bell, s borthwick, a hazel, m dawson, a good, o smith.
