scotland 18-10 itali

six chri paterson penalti gave scotland victori in a dour but clinic encount against itali at murrayfield.

coach matt william' side were outmuscl and outplai in a tens first half but led 6-3 at the break. paterson slot four more second-half penalti and scotland were deni a try when wing sean lamont's touchdown wa rule out for a forward pass. a late andrea masi try wa small consol for itali, chase their first awai win in the six nation. scotland came out on top of the earli exchang and took a quick 3-0 lead through the boot of full-back paterson. but the more power azzurri pack eventu rumbl into life.

a seri of drive into scottish territori set up a penalti attempt, miss by full-back roland de marigni, and a wayward drop-goal effort from luciano orquera. scotland defend the initi thrust but on 20 minut itali, after come up yard short of the line, equalis through a de marigni penalti. itali were offer anoth penalti when scottish flanker simon taylor wa offsid but the left-foot de marigni push hi kick wide. scotland final made the most of a rare forai into the italian half and snatch three point from paterson when an italian forward handl the ball in a ruck.

as the half wore on, both side squander promis spell of momentum with sloppi penalti, and the period fizzl out with scotland numer, if not psycholog, on top. itali's de marigni narrowli miss a chanc to level the score again shortli after the break but hi long-rang kick shave the right upright. and scotland capitalis with a third paterson penalti on 50 minut. william' side seem to have found a spark from somewher and, after a coupl of probe attack, paterson wa abl to slot anoth three point to widen the gap.

with the pendulum of possess swing toward scotland, lamont thought he had wriggl over in the left corner after 65 minut but plai wa recal for a margin forward pass from paterson. anoth paterson penalti on 70 minut kept the pressur on the wilt visitor. but john kirwan's men had the last laugh when gordon ross' attempt clearanc wa charg down and masi pounc for the try, convert by de marigni.

: c paterson; s webster, a craig, h southwel, s lamont; d park, c cusit; t smith, g bulloch (capt), g kerr; s grime, s murrai; s taylor, j petri, a hogg.

r russel, b dougla, n hine, j dunbar, m blair, g ross, b hinshelwood.

r de marigni; mirco bergamasco, c stoica, a masi, l nitoglia; l orquera, a troncon; a lo cicero, f ongaro, m castrogiovanni; s dellap, m bortolami (capt); a persico, d dal maso, s pariss.

g intoppa, s perugini, ca del fava, s orlando, p griffen, r pedrazzi, kp robertson.
