llewellyn plan wale retir

wale record cap holder gareth llewellyn will retir from test rugbi at the end of the six nation.

the veteran lock, who is 36 at the end of februari, told bbc wale scrum v that it is time for him to bring down the curtain on hi 92-cap wale career. llewellyn is on a on-season deal with french club side narbonn, but said he mai consid retir from all rugbi. "i don't know what i'll do next year, whether to carri on plai or make a chang in my career," llewellyn said. "narbonn ar realli keen for me to stai on for next year, so i've got to decid whether to stai on there or mayb go somewher els, but ultimit coach is where i'd like to end up. "i've done all the coach award and everyth you can do in that respect, so it's just hopefulli get a chanc somewher." fellow lock robert sidoli and brent cockbain, who both score tri in saturdai's six nation win in itali, ar wale coach mike ruddock's prefer starter in the second row.

with the resurg of the dragon' ian gough and the adapt of lock-cum-flanker jon thoma on the bench, llewellyn ha not yet made a match-dai squad thi six nation campaign. but the former neath and osprei player is still target on last out in the red shirt. "if i do get on the field then brilliant, although the boi ar do realli well and i'm veri pleas for them," llewellyn ad. "we've had some realli tough year in wale and the player have been through a hell of a lot. "sometim the easiest thing would have been to throw the towel in and walk awai, but a few of us dug in there and it's realli nice to see some of the boi get the reward now. "i wa go to retir at the end of the last six nation, i'd even told some of the boi in the squad about it. "but mike (ruddock) ask me to carri on for anoth season, which i've done, still part of the squad, still try to help them out as much as i can." llewellyn made hi wale debut in 1989 against new zealand as a 20-year-old, have caught the selector' ey in the all black' tour match against neath. the 6ft 6in player ha not look back sinc, go on to break neil jenkin' wale cap record on 12 june 2004 in the 50-44 loss in argentina.

"there's been lot of high - win the six nation in '94, beat england in '93, i've been on some great tour and seen some fantast countri," llewellyn said. "but i think the best thing of all for me wa the time i spent with the player, i've met some great gui in rugbi and made some great friend. "it'll be a bit strang on intern dai have to find somewher to watch wale plai, but at least i might have time to get my golf handicap down!" llewellyn captain neath for seven season, while be an integr part of the neath-swansea osprei region side's first season. but with the osprei build for the futur, llewellyn wa eventu forc to look to franc for employ - dig in hi heel dure contract negoti to insist he must be allow to plai for wale.
