england 17-18 franc

england suffer an eighth defeat in 11 test as scrum-half dimitri yachvili boot franc to victori at twickenham.

two convert tri from olli barklei and josh lewsei help the world champion to a 17-6 half-time lead. but charli hodgson and barklei miss six penalti between them, while yachvili land six for franc to put the visitor in front. england could have won the game with three minut left, but hodgson push an easi drop goal opportun wide. it wa a dismal defeat for england, come hard on the heel of an open six nation loss in wale. thei should have put the game well beyond franc's reach, but remark remain scoreless for the entir second half. a scrappi open quarter saw both side betrai the lack of confid engend by poor open displai against wale and scotland respect. hodgson had an earli opportun to settl english nerv but push a straightforward penalti attempt wide. but a probe kick from franc centr damien traill saw mark cueto penalis for hold on to the ball in the tackl, yachvili give franc the lead with a kick from wide out.

franc twice turn over england ball at the breakdown earli on as the home side struggl to gener forward momentum, on ben kai charg apart. a spell of tit-for-tat kick emphasis the caution on both side, until england refus a possibl three point to kick a penalti to the corner, onli to botch the subsequ line-out. but england made the breakthrough after 19 minut, when a falter move off the back of a scrum led to the open try. jami noon took a short pass from barklei and ran a good angl to plough through yann delaigu's flimsi tackl befor send hi centr partner through to score at the post.

hodgson convert and ad a penalti after on of sever french infring on the floor for a 10-3 lead. the fly-half fail to dispens punish though with a scuf attempt after franc full-back pepito elhorga, scrag by lewsei, threw the ball into touch. barklei also miss two longer-rang effort as the first half drew to a close, but by then england had score a second convert try. after a seri of phase lock danni grewcock ran hard at the french defenc and off-load out of sylvain marconnet's tackl to lewsei. the industri wing cut back in on an angl and hand off hooker sebastien bruno to sprint over. after a dire open to the second half, franc threw on three forward replac in an attempt to rectifi the situat, wing jimmi marlu have alreadi depart injur. yachvili nibbl awai at the lead with a third penalti after 51 minut.

and when lewi moodi wa twice penalis - for handl in a ruck and then strai offsid - the scrum-half's uner left boot cut the deficit to two point. barklei then miss hi third long-rang effort to increas the tension. and after see anoth attempt drop just short, yachvili put franc ahead with hi sixth penalti with 11 minut left.

england sent on ben cohen and matt dawson, and after barklei's kick saw christoph dominici take the ball over hi own line, the stage wa set for a victori platform. but even after a poor scrummag, hodgson had the chanc to seal victori but push hi drop-goal attempt wide. england threw everyth at the french in the final frantic moment, but the visitor held on for their first win at twickenham sinc 1997.

j robinson (capt); m cueto, j noon, o barklei, j lewsei; c hodgson, h elli; g rowntre, s thompson, p vickeri; d grewcock, b kai; j worslei, l moodi, m corri.

a titterrel, a sheridan, s borthwick, a hazel, m dawson, h paul, b cohen.

p elhorga; c dominici, b liebenberg, d traill, j marlu; y delaigu, d yachvili; s marconnet, s bruno, n ma; f pelou (capt), j thion, s betsen, j bonnair, s chabal.

w servat, j milloud, g lambolei, y nyanga, p mignoni, f michalak, j-p grandclaud.

paddi o'brien (new zealand)
