wilkinson to miss ireland match

england will have to take on ireland in the six nation without captain and goal-kicker jonni wilkinson, accord to hi newcastl boss rob andrew.

wilkinson - who had target the 27 februari match for hi intern comeback - ha been miss by england, not least for hi goal-kick. "jonni's not fit yet," falcon chief andrew told bbc radio five live. "he won't be fit for dublin, there's no doubt about that, but he might be fit for scotland and itali." the 25-year-old ha not plai for england sinc the 2003 world cup final after a success of injuri. england, who have lost three six nation game in a row, wast a 17-6 half-time lead in their 18-17 defeat to franc. goal-kicker charli hodgson and olli barklei miss six penalti attempt and a drop-goal between them. "thei've probabl got two of the best english kicker in the premiership in hodgson and barklei," ad andrew, a former england fly-half and goal-kicker.

"thei're both pretti good kicker. charli is a good kicker week-in, week-out. "but it's all about pressur and unfortun england ar just not handl the pressur at the moment." andrew also blame england's poor run of recent result on a lack of leadership in the side follow sever high-profil retir and injuri. "thei just didn't have that leadership that would have seen them through. martin johnson, lawrenc dallaglio and jonni ar obvious huge loss and leadership is so import in those situat," he said. "i think it is realli difficult for jason robinson to lead the side effect from full-back." meanwhil, former england full-back dusti hare put england's mistak down to a lack of mental tough.

"jonni wilkinson ha prove himself a cool custom with around an 80% kick success rate," hare told bbc radio five live. "but natur-born tough come into it as well as all the practic you do. "you have to be abl to shut out all the outsid element and concentr on put the ball between the post." hodgson, who ha an excel kick record with club side sale shark, ha introduc crowd nois into hi practic routin of late. "the top golfer don't hit the fairwai everi time, and it is the same with goal-kick," hare ad. "you need that mental tough as well to put the ball over, but great goal-kicker like jonni wilkinson come along veri rare."
