itali 8-38 wale

wale secur their first awai win in the rb six nation for nearli four year with a six-try victori in rome.

tri from jonathan thoma, tom shanklin and martyn william gave the visitor a 19-5 half-time advantag. luciano orquera did repli with on for itali but second-half effort from brent cockbain, shane william and robert sidoli seal victori. fly-half stephen jone ad four convers as wale maintain their superb start to thi year's tournament. start full of confid after their victori over england, the visitor score the open try after just four minut. diminut wing shane william field a kick ahead and danc past the onrush andrea masi and aaron persico into the italian half. hi pass to tom shanklin appear forward but when the centr wa held up short, the ball wa switch left and michael owen's long cut-out pass gave the lurk thoma an easi run-in.

stephen jone, who retain the kick duti despit gavin henson's heroic against england, slot an excel convers from wide out. wale twice threaten further score but fail to find the crucial pass, and itali hit back out of the blue in the 11th minut.

henson, sport gold boot rather than the silver varieti that did for england, beat two player with eas out on the left touchlin. but hi attempt chip ahead wa charg down by orquera, who snaffl the loos ball and hare awai from halfwai to score in the right corner. with the welsh line-out stutter and itali twice turn the visitor' scrum, the home side's forward power brought them back into it. but a clever high kick from henson almost brought a try for hal luscomb when roland de marigni and ludovico nitoglia made a hash of claim it as the ball bounc into touch.

wale regain control with a second try in the 21st minut, henson lob up a high kick to the left corner where shanklin jump higher than nitoglia to dot down hi 15th test try. jone wa unabl to convert and de marigni then hit the upright with a penalti attempt for itali. henson wa also narrowli short with a long-rang effort at goal, but wale end the half with a vital third score to give themselv some breath space.

henson sent luscomb streak awai and when he off-load to martyn william, the flanker show hi nou to ground the ball against the pad of the post, jone ad the convers. itali, who lost flanker mauro bergamasco with a head knock befor half-time, built up a head of steam on the resumpt. de marigni land a penalti to make it 19-8 and a nitoglia break through the middl threaten a try onli for the move to break down with a knock-on. but wale put the outcom beyond doubt with two superb tri in four minut befor the hour. their fourth after 53 minut wa spark by anoth mazi run from shane william, who beat sever player with eas, and finish with a power angl run from lock cockbain. befor itali could recov from that blow, a strong surg from gareth thoma and great off-load from martyn william and replac kevin morgan saw shane william scamper over.

with jone convert both for a 33-8 lead, wale had the luxuri of send on five more replac for the final quarter. the ic on the cake came with a sixth try after more superb support work, shane william and ceri sweenei combin to send sidoli over in the left corner. the onli downsid for wale wa a hamstr injuri suffer by luscomb. but after back-to-back win at the start of the tournament for the first time in 11 year, thei will travel to pari in a fortnight look like genuin contend.

r de marigni; mirco bergamasco, w pozzebon, a masi, l nitoglia; l orquera, a troncon; a lo cicero, f ongaro, m castrogiovanni, s dellap, m bortolami (capt), a persico, mauro bergamasco, s pariss.

g intoppa, s perugini, ca del fava, d dal maso, p griffen, m barbini, kp robertson.

g thoma (capt); h luscomb, t shanklin, g henson, s william; s jone, d peel; g jenkin, m davi, a jone; b cockbain, r sidoli; j thoma, m william, m owen.

r mcbryde, j yapp, i gough, r sowden-taylor, g cooper, c sweenei, k morgan.

andrew cole (australia).
