ferrero ey return to top form

former world number on juan carlo ferrero insist he can get back to hi best despit a tough start to 2005.

the 2003 french open champion ha slip to 64 in the world after a year of ill and injuri in 2004, but is confid that hi form will return. "i don't know when it is go to happen," ferrero told bbc sport. "but i have a lot of confid in me that i will be the same juan carlo as i wa befor, and veri soon. i feel 100% again mental." the 25-year-old spaniard join a top field for the abn amro world tenni tournament in rotterdam thi week as he look to add to just two win in 2005. he open against rainer schuettler and potenti face fourth seed david nalbandian in the second round. "becaus i'm no longer seed it's tougher," ferrero admit. "i had to plai against joachim johansson in the first round last week in marseil.

"in the past when i wa a top seed i would have plai a match like that in the quarter or semi-final. "thi is the big differ but i have to do it to get higher in the rank." despit thi, ferrero insist he is feel posit after chicken pox and a rib injuri destroi last season. "physic i am 100% sinc decemb of last year," said ferrero. "i wa work veri hard befor the davi cup final to prepar and i've felt 100% from then until now. "the difficult moment were when i knew that i had the chicken pox and that it would take two or three month to recov. "i had to start from zero again physic becaus the viru left me at zero per cent. "when i start to come back i had my rib broken when i fell on court and that wa anoth two month out. those five month were pretti difficult for me."

among the low point of a difficult year for ferrero wa the decis of spain captain jordi arres to drop him for the davi cup final against the usa. "it wa difficult becaus i had been plai well for the whole year and the coach told me that i would plai," said ferrero. "but then i had some problem with my hand two dai befor the fridai match so thei decid to choos nadal instead. "it wa difficult for me not to be in the fridai match but i had to understand. "insid me i want to plai but thi wa the decis of the captain and thei had to make it."
