davenport dismantl young rival

top seed lindsai davenport book her place in the last 16 of the australian open with a convinc 6-2 6-4 win over nicol vaidisova of the czech republ.

the american had too much power for her 15-year-old oppon, break twice in the first set and onc in the second. the german-born vaidisova ralli well at time but wa unabl to find a wai back after fall behind 3-2 in the open set. davenport, who close out with an ac, plai karolina sprem in the next round. "i wa fulli expect a tough oppon and wa abl to plai well enough to get through it," said davenport. "i think she hit some great shot. she made some error but probabl some inexperi plai a role in that. but she's so young and obvious ha a big game and ha mani, mani year to improv on that." sprem, the croatian 13th seed, saw off russia's elena likhovtseva 6-3 6-2. former world number on

power her wai into the fourth round with a straight set win over anna smashnova. the 27th seed from israel stuck with william until 3-3 in the first set befor it becam on-wai traffic.

the american made 26 unforc error but wa still good enough to romp through the contest in exactli an hour. she reel off nine straight game to finish a 6-3 6-0 winner.

remain on cours to becom the first australian to win her home titl sinc chri o'neil in 1978. the 10th seed equal her best perform at a grand slam event when she beat unseed russian nadia petrova 6-3 6-2 to reach the fourth round. after a tough first set, molik grew in confid and won in just 56 minut. she will now meet venu william. "bring it on," said the 23-year-old. "i plai pretti well and it wa nice to get through in straight set." "we were destin to meet, i guess," william said refer to her match with molik. "it will be a huge match for her in australia. i can tell she's probabl veri motiv by that so i need to get out there and plai well."

beat slovakia's daniela hantuchova in a rollercoast match. dementieva came through 7-5 5-7 6-4, becom the seventh russian woman to reach the last 16 in melbourn. the match last almost three hour and featur 13 servic break, includ three in the final set when dementieva held her nerv to seal the win. she now face

after the swiss 12th seed beat american abigail spear 7-6 6-3. french open champion

receiv a free ride into the last 16 after lisa raymond wa forc to withdraw. raymond, the 25th seed american, wa rule out after sustain a left abdomin muscl tear in the doubl. myskina, the third seed, now plai franc's

who beat francesca schiavon of itali 6-3 6-3. "i'm extrem disappoint becaus i couldn't have ask to plai better in my first two match," raymond said.
