kuznetsova 'fail a drug test'

us open champion svetlana kuznetsova ha test posit for a ban drug, accord to belgian author.

belgian sport minist claud eerdeken said that the russian world number five test posit for the stimul ephedrin on 19 decemb. kuznetsova wa plai in an exhibit event in charleroi at the time. eerdeken said: "there is a problem. ephedrin wa discov. she remain innoc until prove guilti. she can ask for it to be test again." the situat remain unclear as the tournament wa not commiss by the world anti-dope agenc (wada), the intern tenni feder (itf) or the women's tenni accosi (wta). the test wa carri out by region belgian author and kuznetsova ha not yet been abl to have a b sampl test.

speak at the australian open on mondai, befor eerdeken identifi her, kuznetsova said: "i'm not worri. i'm not us anyth to push myself. "i have not been notifi of ani posit test, and i think it is unfair that it's come out the wai it did." eerdeken said that confirm of the find wa sent last fridai to the player's address in spain, as well as to the belgian prosecutor' offic and the belgian and russian tenni feder. he conced kuznetsova might have taken a medicin which contain the ban substanc. "we have simpli state a fact," he said. "it is for the feder concern to impos the disciplinari measur after a procedur that respect the defenc.

"either the ephedrin wa taken to improv her perform or it is becaus she took some medicin legitim to cure an infect." howev, kuznetsova's name wa condemn by russian tenni chief shamil tarpishchev. "first of all, thi belgian sport minist ha broken everi ethic rule in the book by name a player without ani proof of wrongdo, without ani basic evid," tarpishchev said. "we all know the basic principl in dope case. if there is a posit sampl, then thei should notifi the intern tenni feder (itf) as well as the nation feder within three dai," he said. "thi is not the case here. as of todai we have not receiv ani statement from the dope offici, nor did the itf. "todai i call the itf headquart and thei told me thei know noth about it. "if wada (the world anti-dope agenc) wa behind the test, then we would also have known someth by now. "otherwis, all these look to me as pure fiction and fabric of the fact."
