what now for british tenni?

tim henman's decis to quit davi cup tenni ha left the british team with a gargantuan void to fill.

the world number seven is ti for fourth among hi countrymen for win in the histori of the tournament (he ha 36 from hi 50 rubber). and great britain's last davi cup win without henman came against slovenia as far back as 1996. wors could follow, accord to former british team member chri bailei. bailei told bbc sport: "after tim's announc, i doubt greg rusedski will be that far behind him." but without their top two, where doe that leav british ambit in the sport's premier team event? captain jeremi bate ha singl out alex bogdanov and andrew murrai as potenti replac. the yugoslavian-born bogdanov, though, is 184 place below henman in the world rank and ha plai just two cup ti - win on and lose the other.

murrai, on the other hand, is 407th in the current atp entri list and yet to make hi cup debut. but bailei doe see some hope for the futur. he said: "now we've drop down to the euro-africa zone, the time wa right for him to step down and let the young gui come to the fore." britain's next oppon, israel, ar hardli like to be quak in their boot ahead of the 4-6 march match against a like trio of bogdanov, murrai and the 187th-rank arvind parmar. bailei said: "it will be tough for gb to move up, but there come a time when our young player have to step up. thi wa alwai go to be inevit with tim and greg's grow year. "i'm confid about the futur. i wouldn't lai monei on us get back into the world group next year, but i'd imagin in five year time we'll be compet for the major honour." of those line up to replac henman, the 17-year-old murrai, with four futur titl under hi belt last year, look the best long-term bet. "murrai is the on that look likeliest to take over tim's mantl," said bailei. "he ha an enorm amount of self-confid, judg by what he's said in the past." bogdanov, three year murrai's senior, ha had a more troubl time under britain's davi cup umbrella.

while murrai ha been mark out as britain's golden boi, bogdanov wa warn by the lawn tenni associ for a lack of drive at the end of 2003. and bailei said: "despit that, alex is clearli talent as well, while arvind is anoth contend. "thei're among the gui who have experienc the intens of davi cup tenni - whether as player or on the sidelin. "the lta ha alwai done an except job of ensur that. "now thei'll final get to plai regularli in the cauldron of the cup. and i'm confid that will springboard team gb to greater success."
