connor boost for british tenni

former world number on jimmi connor is plan a long-term relationship with the lawn tenni associ to help unearth the next tim henman.

the american spent three dai at the lta's annual elit perform winter camp in la manga earlier thi week. "britain ha the right attitud," said connor. "the more involv i can be with the lta, the better. "a short-term arrang is just confus. the kid will ask: 'what am i do there?'" lta chief execut, john crowther, ad: "the relationship that jimmi's alreadi start to develop with the coach and the player ha said to us that we'd like some more of it. "we want to us jimmi for a number of week a year and we hope thi is the begin of a good long-term relationship."

the camp plai host to more than 30 lead senior and junior player, includ greg rusedski, arvind parmar and ann keothavong. "la manga is an amaz site to take a bunch of kid who want to be the best," said connor, speak at queen's club in london. "what impress me most wa not onli the coach but the wai the kid went about their workout and the feel thei put into everi practic thei had. "it wa interest to me to see kid of 15, 16, 17, with that desir and passion, and that can onli be brought about by the coach surround them. "instil the import of work and practic is someth you can't bui. "thei know what's been given to them and all thei have to do is give back the effort, and everi minut of practic thei were do that."

speak from la manga, lta perform director david felgat told bbc sport: "jimmi wa fantast with the player and the coach, and veri humbl consid what he's achiev. "he work through the coach and hopefulli it will grow and he'll get to have more of an individu relationship with some of the player and get to know them. "he made it clear from the word go he didn't want it to be short-term. thi is a 52-week-a-year job for me, it's my life and my passion and it's the same with the coach. "he respect that but he want to be involv and have real input. and why would he stake hi reput on someth that's not go to be success?" connor ha also agre to comment for the bbc at next year's wimbledon championship. he will work dure the second week of the tournament.
