moya clinch cup for spain

spain won the davi cup for the second time in their histori when carlo moya beat the usa's andi roddick in the fourth rubber in sevil.

moya won 6-2 7-6 (7-1) 7-6 (7-5) to give the host an unassail 3-1 lead with onli on singl rubber remain. roddick battl hard and had chanc in the second set, but moya's clai-court expertis prove the differ. mardi fish beat tommi robredo 7-6 (8-6) 6-2 in the final dead rubber to cut spain's win margin to 3-2. spain's onli other davi cup titl came in 2000, when thei beat australia in barcelona. thi time thei chose to plai the final in sevil and the citi's olymp stadium wa revamp to allow for a record crowd for a competitv tenni event of 27,000 spectat. and the home fan gave vocifer support to their player, with 18-year-old nadal and moya win both fridai's singl rubber. american twin mike and bob bryan gave the visitor hope with victori over juan carlo ferrero and tommi robredo in saturdai's doubl. but it remain an uphil task for a us team far happier on hard court than clai, and 1998 french open champion moya had too much for world number two roddick. "thi ha been incred - the moment i've been wait for for year," said moya, who miss out in 2000 through injuri. "i've prepar myself for thi dai. i knew that plai on clai i would have my chanc to win.

"the davi cup is my dream. i can't ask for more. there is noth bigger than what i've live todai." moya storm into a 4-0 lead on hi wai to take the first set against roddick and recov immedi from drop serv in the second. the match came down to two tie-break and moya domin both, clinch victori on hi third match point. wild celebr follow, with an emot moya congratul by hi team-mate, includ nadal, who at 18 year and 187 dai becom the youngest ever victor in davi cup histori. "i think we put up a better fight here than in pari two year ago," said roddick, who wa on the us team which lost to franc in the 2002 semi-final at roland garro. "thei were just better than us thi weekend. i have noth to be asham of, i gave it my all. "i am not go to walk out of here with my head down, that's for sure. "there's no miracl answer. we have to improv."
