classi henman make win start

tim henman open hi 2005 campaign with a 6-1 7-5 victori over argentin david nalbandian at the kooyong classic exhibit tournament on wednesdai.

the british number on will next plai roger feder at the australian open warm-up event on fridai. the world number on beat gaston gaudio 5-7 6-1 6-4, befor andr agassi saw off chilean olymp gold medalist nicola massu 6-1 7-6 (7-4). andi roddick beat ivan ljubic, who replac paradorn srichaphan, 6-1 6-4. henman made an impress start to the year, onli falter against nalbandian when serv for the match at 5-4. but the briton regain hi composur to win the next two game for onli hi second win in six match against the argentin. "it's a great start to the year - just what i wa look for," henman told hi websit. "over the year i've found david veri difficult to plai against.

"he return serv veri well and he's decept effect from the baselin, so sometim it can be difficult to execut my gameplan well enough against him to get the right result. "beat somebodi of hi statur is alwai good for the confid and it bode well at the begin of the year." henman also reveal the extent of the back problem he suffer in the off-season. "i'm not the most flexibl and at the end of the year i wa pretti exhaust and want to have a coupl of week where i didn't do anyth," said henman. "when i start train again it realli, realli seiz up. as much as i enjoi the two week off i don't think it's so product." feder drop a tight first set against 2004 french open champion gaudio, but wa content with hi game. "it wa about get us to the surfac," he said.

"the condit ar much quicker than doha, my time wa ok, but i could have serv better. "all in all i'm happi with the match, and i won it - that's a good sign. now i have a dai off and hopefulli plai better the next match." agassi wa delight with victori over massu in hi first match for over two month. "i felt pretti good," said the american. "i like the wai the match plai out and, mayb exclud a few second serv return, i felt like i wa do most thing pretti darn well for the first match."
