moya emot after davi cup win

carlo moya describ spain's davi cup victori as the highlight of hi career after he beat andi roddick to end the usa's challeng in sevil.

moya made up for miss spain's 2000 victori through injuri by beat roddick 6-2 7-6 (7-1) 7-6 (7-5) to give the host an unassail 3-1 lead. "i have woken up so mani night dream of thi dai," said moya. "all my energi ha been focus on todai. "what i have live todai i do not think i will live again." spain's onli other davi cup titl came two year ago in valencia, when thei beat australia. and moya, nicknam charli, admit: "the davi cup is my dream and i wa a bit nervou at the outset. "some peopl have said that i am obsess but i think that it is better thi wai. it help me reach my goal if i am obsess. "it's realli incred - to get the win point is realli someth." spanish captain jordi arres said: "charli plai a great game. it wa hi opportun and he hasn't let us down. "he had lost three time to roddick, and thi wa hi dai to beat him. "he had been wait year to be in thi posit." spain's victori wa also remark for the perform of rafael nadal, who beat roddick in the open singl.

ag 18 year and 185 dai, the mallorcan becam the youngest player to win the davi cup. "what a great wai to finish the year," said nadal afterward. us coach patrick mcenro want roddick and the rest of hi team to plai more tenni on clai and hone their skill on the surfac. "i think it will help these gui even on slow hard court to learn how to mix thing up a littl bit and to plai a littl bit smarter and tactic better." "obvious it's unrealist to sai that we're go to just start plai constantli on clai, with the schedul. "but certainli i think we can put the work in at the appropri time and plai a coupl more event and plai against these gui who ar the best on thi stuff," said mcenro. roddick wa left frustrat after lose both hi singl on the slow clai of sevil's olymp stadium. "it's just tough becaus i felt like i wa in it the whole time against on of the top three clai-courter in the world," said the american. "i had my chanc and just didn't convert them. the bottom line is thei were just better than us thi weekend. "thei came out, took care of busi and thei beat us. it's as simpl as that."
