faultless feder ha no equal

roger feder - nice bloke, fantast tenni player - the ultim sportsman.

when lleyton hewitt shook hi hand after get anoth thrash, a third in as mani month, the australian said; "you're the best." how right he is. the stat speak for themselv: 11 titl from 11 final dure 2004 - three of them grand slam - and 13 final victori in a row go back to vienna 2003. that's an open-era record. hewitt, at time in houston, show form which easili match hi grand slam-win effort of 2001 and 2002. but he wa outplai. twice. hewitt, along with andi roddick and marat safin, is sure to be promin dure 2005. but realist, all three will be fight for the world number two rank. accord to all those player and even feder himself, the swiss star is in a differ leagu.

"right now i feel that a littl bit," he told bbc sport. "i've domin all the top ten player. thei sai nice thing about me becaus i have beaten them all. i am domin the game right now and i hope it continu!" the number on player in the world is also the main man for promot the sport off court. he ha just been vote, by the intern tenni writer, as the best "ambassador for tenni" on the atp tour. he ha time for everyon. everi match, from first round to final, is follow by a seri of press interview in three languag; english, french and swiss-german. after a major win, there ar extra request, oblig and interview, all seen through to the end with courtesi and, most importantli, good humour. "you gui ar funni, i have a good time with you gui," he said, genuin happi to talk into yet anoth tape record. "i see you pretti much everi dai on the tour so to give awai an hour for interview is realli no problem for me. "if i can promot tenni and the sport then that is good for me. peopl sai thank back and that is nice." what a refresh attitud from someon who could easili domin the sport page for a decad. it sum up hi modest person. shortli after collect a waterford crystal trophi, a merced convert and a tasti chequ for $1.5m, feder address the houston crowd and conclud by sai "thank for have me". now he just need to find a wai of win the french open, the on grand slam to so far elud him.
