mauresmo open with victori in la

ameli mauresmo and maria sharapova won their open match at the tour championship in lo angel.

franc's mauresmo rout vera zvonareva 6-1 6-0, while wimbledon champion sharapova wa a 6-1 6-4 winner over fellow russian svetlana kuznetsova. american serena william also won, edg russian elena dementieva 7-6 7-5 for her second victori of the event. the event is split into two group of four with the top two from each advanc to the semi-final.

mauresmo's win wa her ninth in a row as she tri to overtak lindsai davenport for the number on spot. mauresmo spent five week at number on after the us open befor injuri usher davenport back in front. "sinc then, i feel veri confid on court and my game is there. i want to get the rank back, but it's veri differ than befor i wa number on. "it wa an obsess, but now i take it in a relax wai." mauresmo complet her first match in the season-end championship in 54 minut as russia's zvonareva struggl to return her serv and fail to achiev a singl break point.

"she got mad a littl bit and i plai some great tenni," said mauresmo, who wa runner-up to kim clijster in last year's final. zvonareva ha lost both her game so far, have crash 6-2 6-4 kuznetsova in the stapl centr on wednesdai. "sometim not everyth work," she said. "it wa lot of pressur. mayb that is why i couldn't do 100%. but i wa fight." sharapova, who lost 6-2 6-2 to kuznetsova in beij in septemb, said: "in beij, she wa come off such a big win streak [14 match] and she wa unstopp. "thi time, it wa import to start off well and put some pressur on her." the tournament debut ad: "i love it here. the atmospher is great. "to be here where the laker plai, you just feel that excit. i love basketbal." william admit she is still some wai off her best form but remain posit after two win in two dai. "it's hard to go out there and get it right but i'm fight and i'm hope," said william. "what make me happi is the effort. i had a realli good effort todai. "i'm try to add new dimens to my game."
