henman to face saulnier test

british number on tim henman will face franc's cyril saulnier in the first round of next week's australian open.

greg rusedski, the british number two, is in the same quarter of the draw and could face andi roddick in the second round if he beat swede jona bjorkman. local favourit lleyton hewitt will meet franc's arnaud clement, while defend champion and world number on roger feder face fabric santoro. women's top seed lindsai davenport drew spanish veteran conchita martinez.

henman came from two set down to defeat saulnier in the first round of the french open last year, so he know he face a tough test in melbourn. the seventh seed, who ha never gone beyond the quarter-final in the year's first major and is line up to meet roddick in the last eight, is look forward to the match. "he's tough player on ani surfac, he's got a lot of abil," he said. "we had a realli tight on in pari that went my wai so i'm go to need to plai well from the outset becaus he's a danger competitor." switzerland's feder, seed on, is the hot favourit have won three of the four grand slam titl in 2004. he ha beaten santoro in five of their seven previou encount, but is take noth for grant. "it's a tricki match," feder said. "i plai him at the us open and won quit comfort then. but you never know, if the rhythm is a bit off, he can keep you guess and make it difficult. "the most import thing, though, is to get us to plai five-set match and win them." the 23-year-old could meet four-time champion andr agassi in the quarter-final befor meet russian marat safin, the player he beat in last year's final.

eighth-seed american agassi is set to plai a qualifi in round on if he can shake off a hip injuri which rule him out of the kooyong classic. second seed andi roddick will open hi campaign against irakli labadz of georgia. the american could meet rusedski in the second round, seventh seed henman in the quarter-final and hewitt in the last four. hewitt is hope to becom the first australian man to win the event sinc mark edmondson in 1976. the 23-year-old ha never been beyond round four in eight attempt at melbourn park but ha at least secur the opposit half of the draw to feder, who beat him in the australian open, wimbledon and us open last year. safin, seed four, open hi campaign against a qualifi with 16th seed tommi haa, the player he beat in the semi-final in 2002, a possibl fourth-round oppon.

in the women's draw, davenport could encount eighth-seed venu william in the quarter-final and third-rank anastasia myskina, the french open champion, in the semi-final. bronchiti rule davenport, the 2000 australian open champion, out of her sydnei quarter-final on thursdai. venu william, who lost to younger sister serena in the melbourn final two year ago, open against eleni daniilid of greec. serena william, who won her fourth consecut grand slam at the 2003 australian open, wa drawn in the bottom quarter with second seed ameli mauresmo, a runner-up in 1999. serena will open against anoth frenchwoman camil pin, while mauresmo plai australia's samantha stosur. wimbledon champion maria sharapova, seed fourth, drew a qualifi in the first round but could meet fellow russian svetlana kuznetsova, the us open winner, in the last eight

1 roger feder (switzerland)

2 andi roddick (us)

3 lleyton hewitt (australia)

4 marat safin (russia)

5 carlo moya (spain)

6 guillermo coria (argentina)

7 tim henman (britain)

8 andr agassi (us)

9 david nalbandian (argentina)

10 gaston gaudio (argentina)

11 joachim johansson (sweden)

12 guillermo cana (argentina)

13 tommi robredo (spain)

14 sebastien grosjean (franc)

15 mikhail youzhni (russia)

16 tommi haa (germani)

17 andrei pavel (romania)

18 nicola massu (chile)

19 vincent spadea (us)

20 dominik hrbati (slovakia)

21 nicola kiefer (germani)

22 ivan ljubic (croatia)

23 fernando gonzalez (chile)

24 feliciano lopez (spain)

25 juan ignacio chela (argentina)

26 nikolai davydenko (russia)

27 paradorn srichaphan (thailand)

28 mario ancic (croatia)

29 taylor dent (us)

30 thoma johansson (sweden)

31 juan carlo ferrero (spain)

32 jurgen melzer (austria)

1 lindsai davenport (us)

2 ameli mauresmo (franc)

3 anastasia myskina (russia)

4 maria sharapova (russia)

5 svetlana kuznetsova (russia)

6 elena dementieva (russia)

7 serena william (us)

8 venu william (us)

9 vera zvonareva (russia)

10 alicia molik (australia)

11 nadia petrova (russia)

12 patti schnyder (switzerland)

13 karolina sprem (croatia)

14 francesca schiavon (itali)

15 silvia farina elia (itali)

16 ai sugiyama (japan)

17 fabiola zuluaga (colombia)

18 elena likhovtseva (russia)

19 nathali dechi (franc)

20 tatiana golovin (franc)

21 ami frazier (us)

22 magdalena maleeva (bulgaria)

23 jelena jankov (serbia and montenegro)

24 mari pierc (franc)

25 lisa raymond (us)

26 daniela hantuchova (slovakia)

27 anna smashnova (israel)

28 shinobu asago (japan)

29 gisela dulko (argentina)

30 flavia pennetta (itali)

31 jelena kostan (croatia)

32 iveta benesova (czech republ)
