edgi agassi struggl past dent

andr agassi put in an errat displai befor edg into the fourth round of the australian open with victori over taylor dent.

the 34-year-old american, seed eighth, made a poor start, drop serv earli on and later need two chanc to serv out the set. have secur the lead, agassi still fail to take control as both player forc a success of break. but agassi won the tie-break befor wrap up a 7-5 7-6 (7-3) 6-1 win. fourth seed

surviv an injuri scare as he battl past mario ancic 6-4 3-6 6-3 6-4. the russian turn hi right ankl in the third game of the fourth set and call for treatment immedi. but he show no sign of the problem when he return to the court to wrap up victori in two hour 45 minut.

ancic, wimbledon semi-finalist in 2004, look set to push safin all the wai when he took the second set but safin rais hi game to sink the croatian. safin said he wa try to keep hi temper under control at thi year's tournament. the russian hit himself on the head repeatedli in on second-set outburst but wa otherwis larg calm in hi victori. "i try to stai calm becaus if you go crazi against player like ancic, you might never come back becaus he's a tough oppon," he said. "i'm a littl bit calmer than i wa befor becaus i'd had enough." the russian ad that he wa not worri by hi ankl injuri. "i have had a lot of problem with that ankl befor - it will be ok," he said.

's rout to the fourth round wa made easi when oppon jarkko nieminen wa forc to retir from their match.

the top seed and defend champion wa lead 6-3 5-2 when nieminen pull out with an abdomin injuri. feder had been in patchi form until then - mix 19 unforc error with 19 winner. the world number on will plai cypriot

next after the former world junior champion beat tommi robredo 7-6 (7-2) 6-4 6-1. feder admit he wa under extra pressur after extend hi win streak to a career-best 24. "thei ar so us to me win, but it's not that simpl," he said. "i had a feel thi could be a tough match. i had a bad start but i bounc back. i alwai want to plai better than i am, but i thought i wa pretti ok." french open champion

is out of the tournament after a five-set defeat by dominik hrbati. hrbati defeat the 10th seed 7-6 (7-5) 6-7 (8-10) 6-7 (3-7) 6-1 6-3 in a match last four hour and 21 minut. the pair trade 16 servic break dure an exhaust baselin battl, with hrbati take a decis advantag in the eighth game of the final set. hrbati will now plai 2002 champion

, who outlast american kevin kim 3-6 6-2 6-7 6-2 6-2.
