hewitt fight back to reach final

lleyton hewitt kept hi dream of an australian open titl aliv with a four-set win over andi roddick in fridai's second semi-final.

the home favourit will face marat safin in sundai's final after come through 3-6 7-6 (7-3) 7-6 (7-4) 6-1. hewitt fought back from a set down and trail in both tie-break but would not be deni, thrill the melbourn crowd with a typic battl effort. he is aim to be the first australian winner sinc mark edmondson in 1976. hewitt is the first australian to make the final sinc pat cash lost to mat wiland in 1988, but face a huge challeng against safin - the conqueror of roger feder. after need five set in hi last two match there wa reason to think hewitt might struggl for fit. he certainli made a sluggish start, drop hi open servic game, and roddick domin with hi huge serv as he took the first set.

after 12 tens game in the second, the kei moment came when hewitt rais hi game in the tie-break to overturn an earli mini-break. that energis the crowd but roddick wa not finish and race 4-1 clear in the crucial third befor hewitt peg him back and forc anoth tie-break. again roddick broke first and again hewitt fought back, take the lead with a superb backhand pass.

the australian wa not to be deni and a dishearten roddick made littl impact in the fourth set as hewitt race to victori, send the melbourn crowd wild and ensur the final will be a huge occas. "it's awesom," said hewitt. "i start prepar for thi tournament nine month ago. "i've done a lot of hard yard to get here. "i've alwai said i'd do anyth to get in the first night final at the australian open. now i've got my chanc." roddick wa furiou with himself for fail to take advantag of lead in both tie-break. "i'm usual pretti monei in those," said roddick. "either on of those would have given me a distinct advantag. "i'm mad, i felt i wa in there with a shot. he put himself in posit to win big point. i donat a littl more than i would have want." and the american plai down the influenc of on spectat who appear to contribut to a doubl fault by shout dure rodick's servic action. "it just took on jackass to shout out," said roddick, ad that the crowd overal wa "veri respect".
