safin plai down wimbledon hope

newli-crown australian open champion marat safin ha rule out ani chanc of win wimbledon in the futur.

after lose in round on last year, safin said he had "given up" on wimbledon and win hi second grand slam titl ha not chang hi mind. "i'll plai, but with no expect. i feel like i can't wast my time, my energi on that surfac," he said. "some peopl, thei cannot plai on clai. some peopl, thei cannot plai on a hard court. me, i can't plai on grass." howev, safin is hope that win the australian open will give him the belief he need to win more grand slam titl. "it's a relief for me. two grand slam, it's alreadi someth. but with thi on i work realli hard for it," he said. "basic, i would love to win a coupl more. i think i have a chanc if i continu thi wai.

"if (coach) peter lundgren will stick around with me and want to work with me for a bit longer, i think i can make it." the 25-year-old shock pete sampra in the 2000 us open final to win hi first major titl but then lost in two australian open final. safin admit he had begun to doubt whether he would win anoth grand slam. "i didn't expect that (to win the 2000 us open) - it wa against sampra, i wasn't the favourit so i had no pressur whatsoev," he said. "after the first final that i didn't win against thoma johansson (in 2002), i couldn't see myself win the grand slam anymor. "i wa onc in the semi-final of the french open, but i didn't believ i can win it. "i just couldn't handl the pressur. you need to believ in yourself, and i didn't."

and after lose the first set 6-1 to lleyton hewitt in sundai's final, safin said he began to doubt himself again. "i am 25. i'm plai against hewitt. at least you have to have the opportun to win it, at least have a chanc," he said. "it's like you go there and you lose first set 6-1, then you start to think: 'thi is not my dai. the wai i'm plai is ridicul.' "but then you start to realli be a littl bit more selfish and try to find a wai out of there. "and i found it. i wa like realli much i wa much happier than in 2000, that's for sure, becaus i get over it."
