nadal put spain 2-0 up

result: nadal 6-7 (6/8) 6-2 7-6 (8/6) 6-2 roddick

spain's rafael nadal beat andi roddick of the usa in the second singl match rubber of the 2004 davi cup final in sevil. spain lead 1-0 after carlo moya beat mardi fish in straight set in the open match of the tie.

nadal hold hi nerv and the crowd goe wild as spain go 2-0 up in the tie.

roddick hold serv to forc nadal to serv for the match but the american sure cannot turn thing around now.

nadal work roddick around the court on two consecut point to earn two break point. on is enough, the spaniard secur the doubl-break and roddick is now teeter on the edg.

roddick is try to gee himself up but the clai surfac is take it toll on hi game and he is look tire. nadal win the game to love.

nadal step up the pressur to break and spain have the earli initi in the fourth set.

nadal also hold convincingli as both player feel their wai into the fourth set.

roddick shrug off the disappoint of lose the third-set tiebreak and breez through hi first servic game of the fourth set.

nadal earn the first mini-break in the tiebreak as the match enter it fourth hour. a coupl of stun point follow, on where nadal chase down a roddick shot and turn into a pass winner. then roddick produc some amaz defenc at the net to take the score to 4-4. roddick ha two serv for the set but doubl-fault to take the score to 5-5. nadal save a roddick set point then earn hi own with a drive vollei - and a crosscourt pass winner send the crowd wild.

nadal tri to up hi aggress and he pass roddick down the line to go 15-40 and two set point up. roddick save the first with a desper lung vollei and smack a vollei winner across the court to take the score back to deuc befor secur the game. the set will go to anoth tiebreak.

nadal enjoi anoth straightforward hold and roddick must onc again serv to stai in the set.

roddick again hold on, despit some brilliant shot-make from hi oppon.

nadal race through hi servic game to put the pressur straight back onto roddick.

roddick hang in on hi serv to level matter but nadal is make him fight for everi point.

nadal could be suffer a disappoint hangov from the previou game as he goe 0-30 down and then ha to save a break point after a tremend ralli in which he is forc into some brilliant defenc. but it pai off and the spaniard edg ahead in the set.

roddick's serv is not fire as feroci as usual and ha to reli on hi sheer competit determin to stai in the set. three time, nadal forc a break point and three time the world number two hang in. and roddick's grit pai off as he manag to hold.

roddick still look a bit sluggish but he attack the net and is reward with a break point, which nadal save with a good first serv and the spaniard goe on to hold.

there is a disrupt in plai as roddick is upset about someth in the crowd. the spanish captain get involv as doe the match refere but it is unclear what the problem is. on thing for certain is that the crowd ar rous into support of nadal and thei go wild when roddick lose the next point and goe break point down. roddick save the break point and then bang down hi ninth ac befor clinch the game with a servic winner.

the game pass the two-hour mark as nadal hold serv to edg ahead in the third set.

now roddick ha to defend a break point and he produc a characterist ac to save it. it is immedi follow by anoth and he hold with a littl dink half-vollei winner.

roddick is look a littl leaden-foot but doe carv out a break point for himself. but he plai it poorli and nadal avoid the danger.

roddick ha gone off the boil and again struggl. he fail to get down properli for a low forehand vollei and give nadal three break point. the american blast an ac to save on but follow up with a doubl fault and the rubber is level.

nadal edg toward take the second set with a comfort hold.

two good serv put roddick 30-0 up but he then make a coupl of error to find himself 30-40 down. he save the break point with an ac and then manag to hold.

roddick's level ha drop while nadal is on a hot streak. the spaniard includ a superb crosscourt winner off the back foot as he race through hi servic game without drop a point.

roddick doubl-fault twice and nadal take full advantag of the break point offer, power a pass winner past roddick.

nadal win anoth tight game. neither player ha dip from the high standard of plai in the first set.

nadal put the american under pressur and roddick save a break point with a superb stop vollei befor go on to hold.

nadal put the disappoint of lose the first-set tiebreak to claim the open game in the second.

roddick doubl-fault to conced the first mini-break and then nadal loop a crosscourt winner to seiz advantag in the tiebreak. he let on slip but win hi next serv to earn three set point. but roddick save them and then earn on himself. nadal come up with a down-the-line winner but then net tame on roddick's next set point.

nadal's nerv is test as he tri to forc a tiebreak. both player come up with some scintil tenni and the spaniard ha sever chanc to clinch the game befor final do so when roddick drive wide.

a pulsat game see nadal race round the court retriev and refus to give roddick ani easi point. the point of the match so far involv roddick's slam-dunk smash be return by nadal befor roddick final manag to end the ralli. on the veri next point, nadal blast a forehand servic return from right of court that pass roddick and even the american is forc to applaud. but roddick come up with two big serv to polish off the game.

nadal outplai roddick to reach 40-0 but the american fight back to 40-30 befor nadal's power crosscourt forehand winner secur the game.

the crowd ar get veri involv, cheer between roddick's first and second serv. but the american come through to hold and edg ahead in the set.

nadal manag to hold again despit roddick pile the pressur on hi serv. the spaniard win the game courtesi of anoth lucki net cord.

roddick doubl fault but manag to keep hi composur. a well-place serv is unreturn and roddick hold.

a power ac down the middl give nadal a simpl love servic game - the first time he ha held serv so far in the match. if roddick didn't know befor, he know now that he is in a real contest.

anoth superb game as nadal break to onc again lift the roof. he produc some fine groundstrok to leav roddick chase shadow. four of the first five game have seen a break of serv.

despit the disappoint of lose hi serv, roddick is not phase and storm into a 40-15 lead when the umpir leav hi seat to confirm a close line-call. nadal take the next point but roddick break again with a sharp vollei at the net.

roddick's advantag is short live as nadal break back immedi. a fortun net cord help the spaniard on hi wai and when roddick fire a forehand cross court shot wide to lose hi serv, nadal pump hi fist in celebr.

the american is pump up for thi clash and take on nadal's serv from the start. nadal's drop shot is agonisingli call out and roddick claim the vital first break.

after moya's win in the open rubber, a raucou sevil crowd is buoi by nadal's impress start which see him race into a 30-0 lead. howev roddick fight back to hold hi serv.
