connor' ralli cry for british tenni

"do you have it in your heart? how much gut do you have? how much do you hate to lose?"

these ar the question jimmi connor will be ask of britain's brightest tenni hope in the month, and possibl year, to come. the american legend swept into london on thursdai to announc a "long-term" relationship with the lawn tenni associ after spend three dai at the elit perform winter camp in la manga. and the man who epitomis the phrase 'will to win' befor lleyton hewitt wa even born is clear about the qualiti he hope to convei. "you know, everybodi hit the ball well and there's a veri fine line between number on and number 100," said connor. "i wa that fine line for a long time. but if i can help, i want to be part of teach kid how to win."

connor is not the first great name to offer hi servic to the lta - hi long-time rival john mcenro ha repeatedli done the same. but connor is at pain to point out that hi interest goe well beyond ani public stunt, and he gave a glow recommend to the work of lta perform director david felgat and hi team. "britain ha a differ attitud, the right attitud, in take the game forward and find the next wimbledon champion," said connor. "that's someth you don't find everi dai. everybodi talk a good game but not everybodi put that into effect. "the impress i came awai with after just see david and the other coach for three dai wa on like i've never seen befor, especi over here. "thi is not go to happen overnight, there ar no miracl worker, but you're go in the right direct." the 52-year-old's enthusiasm for the work go on in thi countri is in mark contrast to hi relationship with tenni offici back in america. "i've had discuss with the usta (unit state tenni associ) over a number of year," he said. "that's where it (my input) end." connor is a straight-talker and will be equal blunt and honest in hi deal with the lta and the cream of britain's young player. "if thei're chosen, thei've got to produc," he said.

"if not, someon will come and take their place. there's onli on number on spot and it's lone up there, but it's got the best view." in the year that ha seen andrew murrai emerg as britain's great new hope, connor reject suggest that the scot might be put under too much pressur too soon. "tim henman ha a whole countri on hi shoulder," said connor. "i don't know that pressur, but if you like that it can be a certain push to get on to the next level. "someon's go to have to come and take over from him (henman). if i wa andrew murrai, i'd embrac that. that's what we plai for." despit the emphasi on hard work, train and prepar, connor doe admit that the desir requir of a champion ha to come from within. "the passion i had, i don't know if you can find that," he admit. "i wa also nut. i sai that becaus there wa noth better for me than to compet on the tenni court. "it wa the most import thing in the world for me, and to do that someth's got to be not right with you. there wa noth better for me ever than to plai tenni in front of 25,000 peopl. "what i had when i plai tenni is what i am. you have to have that, you can't be mould."
