feder join all-time great

the last year ha seen on player domin men's tenni, and on countri domin the women's game.

roger feder becam the first man sinc mat wiland in 1988 to win three grand slam in on season. and after anastasia myskina becam the first russian woman to win a grand slam at the french open, two more follow at wimbledon and the us open. meanwhil, briton tim henman enjoi hi best year, while greg rusedski fought back superbl from advers. feder began the year as world number on and holder of the wimbledon and master cup titl, and set about conquer new ground. the swiss sound warn of the domin to come at the australian open.

he rip through the draw befor beat marat safin in the final. andi roddick wa the onli player to put up ani real resist at wimbledon, and feder's perform against lleyton hewitt in the us open final wa breathtak. feder again got the better of hewitt in the season-end master cup. hi victori in houston prove to be hi 13th success win in a final, an open era record. the onli major let-down wa a third-round loss to gustavo kuerten at the french open, and roland garro will be hi main target in 2005.

there wa also a surpris loss to the unherald toma berdych at the olymp game, which saw chile domin as nicoal massu took the singl and then pair up with fernando gonzaelz to win doubl gold. anoth major trophi that look beyond feder is the davi cup, which wa won by spain in a 3-2 home success over the usa in sevil. roddick struggl on the clai, lose to rafael nadal on the open dai befor go down to carlo moya in the all-import fourth rubber.

henman broke new ground by reach the semi on clai at the french open - a stun effort - and also at the us open. a quarter-final defeat to mario ancic at wimbledon wa disappoint for the limp manner of the briton's defeat, but he remain optimist of go further next year.

british number two rusedski endur a rollercoast year, return to the circuit after be clear of a dope offenc in march. with hi rank down at 168, mani fear the 31-year-old's career wa over, but he battl back in the second half of the season to re-enter the top 50. the russian women final deliv on their long-recognis promis in 2004, with myskina, maria sharapova and svetlana kuznetsova win grand slam, befor take the season-end fed cup. but while the young russian were on the wai up, it wa a differ stori for the belgian and the william sister. onli veteran lindsai davenport held the new wave at bai, a stun run of form after wimbledon take her to number on ahead of ameli mauresmo, whose grand slam drought goe on. the year start in regul fashion as justin henin-hardenn beat compatriot kim clijster at the australian open.

a viru ruin the rest of henin-hardenn's year, although she wa fit enough to win olymp gold, but clijster had an even more miser 2004. she suffer a seriou wrist injuri and then announc the end of her relationship with lleyton hewitt, and will be happi to see the year end. in their absenc, myskina thrash elena dementieva in a histor, but woeful, all-russian final at the french open. wimbledon wa a more refresh affair as sharapova captiv sw19, show nerv of steel as she battl past davenport and serena william to take the titl.

davenport wa a strong favourit for the us open but, hamper by injuri, lost to the power and unflapp kuznetsova in the semi. kuznetsova went on to give dementieva anoth grand slam final thrash, with the latter's wayward serv becom on of the talk point of the year. with the russian still improv, the like of henin-hardenn, clijster, davenport, mauresmo, venu and serena will need to be fulli fit and motiv in 2005. and it mai take their compatriot safin to challeng feder on the men's side.
