henman decid to quit davi cup

tim henman ha retir from great britain's davi cup team.

the 30-year-old, who made hi davi cup debut in 1994, is now set to fulli focu on the atp tour and on win hi first grand slam event. "i've made no secret of the fact that repres great britain ha alwai been a top prioriti for me throughout my career," henman told hi websit. captain jeremi bate ha tout alex bogdanov and andrew murrai as possibl replac for the veteran. henman ad that he wa avail to help britain in it bid for davi cup success, with the next tie against israel in march . "although i won't be plai, i would still like to make myself avail to both jeremi and the lta in the futur so that i can draw upon my experi in the hope of try to help the british player develop their full potenti," he ad. "i've realli enjoi plai in front of the thousand of british fan both home and abroad and would like to thank everi on of them for their unwav support over the year." henman leav davi cup tenni with an impress record, have won 36 of hi 50 match. great britain captain jeremi bate paid tribut to henman's effort over the year.

"tim ha quit simpli had a phenomen davi cup career and it ha been an absolut privileg to have captain the team with him in it," said bate. "tim's magnific record speak for itself. while it's a great loss i complet understand and respect hi decis to retir from davi cup and focu on the grand slam and tour. " "look to the futur thi decis obvious mark a watersh in british davi cup tenni but it is also a huge opportun for the next gener to make their mark. "we have a host of talent player come through and despit lose someon of tim's calibr, i remain veri optimist about the futur." henman made hi davi cup debut in 1994 against romania in manchest. he and partner bate won their doubl rubber on the middl saturdai of the tie. britain eventu lost the contest 3-2. henman and britain had littl luck in davi cup match until 1999 when thei qualifi for the world group. britain drew the usa and lost the tie when greg rusedski fell to jim courier in the decid rubber. thei made the final stage again, in 2002, but thi time lost out to the might of sweden.
