ink help drive democraci in asia

the kyrgyz republ, a small, mountain state of the former soviet republ, is us invis ink and ultraviolet reader in the countri's elect as part of a drive to prevent multipl vote.

thi new technolog is caus both worri and guard optim among differ sector of the popul. in an effort to live up to it reput in the 1990s as "an island of democraci", the kyrgyz presid, askar akaev, push through the law requir the us of ink dure the upcom parliamentari and presidenti elect. the us govern agre to fund all expens associ with thi decis.

the kyrgyz republ is seen by mani expert as backslid from the high point it reach in the mid-1990s with a hastili push through referendum in 2003, reduc the legisl branch to on chamber with 75 deputi. the us of ink is onli on part of a gener effort to show commit toward more open elect - the german embassi, the soro foundat and the kyrgyz govern have all contribut to purchas transpar ballot box.

the actual technolog behind the ink is not that complic. the ink is sprai on a person's left thumb. it dri and is not visibl under normal light.

howev, the presenc of ultraviolet light (of the kind us to verifi monei) caus the ink to glow with a neon yellow light. at the entranc to each poll station, on elect offici will scan voter's finger with uv lamp befor allow them to enter, and everi voter will have hi/her left thumb sprai with ink befor receiv the ballot. if the ink show under the uv light the voter will not be allow to enter the poll station. likewis, ani voter who refus to be ink will not receiv the ballot. these elect ar assum even greater signific becaus of two larg factor - the upcom parliamentari elect ar a prelud to a potenti regim chang presidenti elect in the autumn as well as the echo of recent elect in other former soviet republ, notabl ukrain and georgia. the us of ink ha been controversi - especi among group perceiv to be pro-govern.

wide circul articl compar the us of ink to the rural practic of mark sheep - a still common metaphor in thi primarili agricultur societi.

the author of on such articl began a petit drive against the us of the ink. the greatest part of the opposit to ink ha often been sheer ignor. local newspap have carri stori that the ink is harm, radioact or even that the ultraviolet reader mai caus health problem. other, such as the aggress middl of the road, coalit of non-government organ, have laud the move as an import step forward. thi type of ink ha been us in mani elect in the world, in countri as vari as serbia, south africa, indonesia and turkei. the other common type of ink in elect is indel visibl ink - but as the elect in afghanistan show, improp us of thi type of ink can caus addit problem. the us of "invis" ink is not without it own problem. in most elect, numer rumor have spread about it.

in serbia, for exampl, both christian and islam leader assur their popul that it us wa not contrari to religion. other rumour ar associ with how to remov the ink - variou soft drink, solvent and clean product ar put forward. howev, in realiti, the ink is veri effect at get under the cuticl of the thumb and difficult to wash off. the ink stai on the finger for at least 72 hour and for up to a week. the us of ink and reader by itself is not a panacea for elect ill. the passag of the ink law is, nevertheless, a clear step forward toward free and fair elect." the countri's wide watch parliamentari elect ar schedul for 27 februari.

david mikosz work for the if, an intern, non-profit organis that support the build of democrat societi.
