digit guru float sub-$100 pc

nichola negropont, chairman and founder of mit's media lab, sai he is develop a laptop pc that will go on sale for less than $100 (£53).

he told the bbc world servic programm go digit he hope it would becom an educ tool in develop countri. he said on laptop per child could be " veri import to the develop of not just that child but now the whole famili, villag and neighbourhood". he said the child could us the laptop like a text book. he describ the devic as a strip down laptop, which would run a linux-base oper system, "we have to get the displai down to below $20, to do thi we need to rear project the imag rather than us an ordinari flat panel.

"the second trick is to get rid of the fat , if you can skinni it down you can gain speed and the abil to us smaller processor and slower memori." the devic will probabl be export as a kit of part to be assembl local to keep cost down. mr negropont said thi wa a not for profit ventur, though he recognis that the manufactur of the compon would be make monei. in 1995 mr negropont publish the bestsel be digit, now wide seen as predict the digit ag. the concept is base on experi in the us state of main, where children were given laptop comput to take home and do their work on.

while the idea wa popular amongst the children, it initi receiv some resist from the teacher and there were problem with laptop get broken. howev, mr negropont ha adapt the idea to hi own work in cambodia where he set up two school togeth with hi wife and gave the children laptop. "we put in 25 laptop three year ago , onli on ha been broken, the kid cherish these thing, it's also a tv a telephon and a game machin, not just a textbook." mr negropont want the laptop to becom more common than mobil phone but conced thi wa ambiti. "nokia make 200 million cell phone a year, so for us to claim we're go to make 200 million laptop is a big number, but we're not talk about do it in three or five year, we're talk about month." he plan to be distribut them by the end of 2006 and is alreadi in discuss with the chines educ ministri who ar expect to make a larg order. "in china thei spend $17 per child per year on textbook. that's for five or six year, so if we can distribut and sell laptop in quantiti of on million or more to ministri of educ that's cheaper and the market overhead go awai."
