technolog get the creativ bug

the hi-tech and the art world have for some time danc around each other and offer creativ and technic help when requir.

often thi help ha come in the form of corpor art sponsorship or infrastructur provis. but that danc is grow more intim as hi-tech firm look to the creativ industri for inspir. and vice versa. uk telco bt is seriou about the idea and ha launch it connect world initi. the idea, sai bt, is to shape a "21st centuri model" which will help cement the art, technolog, and busi world togeth. "we ar hope to understand the creativ industri that ha a natur thirst for broadband technolog," said frank stone, head of the bt's busi sector programm. he look after sever "centr of excel" which the telco ha set up with other institut and organis, on of which is focus on creativ industri.

to mark the initi's launch, a major intern art instal is to open on 15 april in brussel, with a further exhibit in madrid later in the summer. thei have both been creat us the telco's technolog that it ha been incub at it research and develop arm, includ a sophist graphic render program. us a 3d graphic engin, the type commonli us in game, bafta-win artist langland & bell have creat a virtual, stori-base, 3d model of brussel' coudenberg cellar.

thei have recent been excav and ar thought to be the remnant of coudenberg palac, an histor seat of european power. the 3d world can be navig us a joystick and offer an immers experi of a landscap that histor had a river run through it until it wa brick up in the 19th centuri. "the river wa integr to the citi's surviv for hundr of year and it wa equal essenti to the citi that it disappear," said the artist. "we hope that by uncov the river, we can greater understand the connect between the past and the present, and appreci the flow of modern, onc conceal, but now reveal the river senn." in their previou work thei us the quak game graphic engin. the game engin is the core compon of a video game becaus it handl graphic render, game ai, and how object behav and relat to each other in a game. thei ar so time-consum and expens to creat, the engin can be licens out to handl other graphic-intens game. bt's own engin, tara (total abstract render architectur) ha been in develop sinc 2001 and ha been us to recreat virtual interact model of build for planner. it wa also us in 2003 in encount, an urban-base, pervas game that combin both virtual plai in conjunct with physic, on-the-street action. becaus the artist want video and interact element in their world, new featur were ad to tara in order to handl the complex data set. but collabor between art and digit technolog is by no mean new, and mani keen coder, design, game maker and anim argu that what thei creat is art itself.

as more tool for self-express ar given to the person on the street, enabl peopl to take photo with a phone and upload them to the web for instanc, creativ will becom an integr part of technolog. the orang expressionist exhibit last year, for exampl, displai thousand of pictur messag from peopl all over the uk to creat an interact instal.

technolog as a wai of unleash creativ ha massiv potenti, not least becaus it give peopl someth to do with their technolog. big busi know it is good for them to get in on the creativ vein too. the art world is "fantast rich", said mr stone, with creativ peopl and idea which mean tradit compani like bt want to get in with them. between 1997 and 2002, the creativ industri brought £21 billion to london alon. it is an industri that is grow by 6% a year too. the partnership between artist and technologist is part of try to understand the creativ potenti of technolog like broadband net, accord to mr stone. "thi is not just about put art galleri and museum onlin," he said. "it is about how can everyon have the best seat in hous and ask if technolog ha a role in solv that problem." with broadband penetr reach 100% in the uk, busi with a stake in the technolog want to give peopl reason to want and us it. the creativ drive is not pure altruist obvious. it is about both industri borrow strategi and creativ idea togeth which can result in better busi practic for creativ industri, or more patent idea for tech compani. "what we ar try to do is have outsid-in think. "we ar creat a futur cultur drive for the economi," said mr stone.
