wi-fi web reach farmer in peru

a network of commun comput centr, link by wireless technolog, is provid a help hand for poor farmer in peru.

the pilot scheme in the huaral vallei, 80 kilometr north of the capit lima, aim to offer the 6,000-strong commun up-to-date inform on agricultur market price and trend. the agricultur inform project for farmer of the chancai-huaral vallei also provid vital link between local organis in charg of water irrig, enabl them to coordin their action. more than 13,000 rural inhabit, as well as 18,000 student in the region, will also benefit from the telecom infrastructur.

the 14 telecentr us onli free open sourc softwar and afford comput equip. the network ha been three year in the make and wa offici inaugur in septemb.

the non-govern organis, cepe (peruvian centr for social studi) led the $200,000 project, also back by local institut, the educ and agricultur ministri, and european develop organis. "the plan includ train on comput and internet skill for both oper and user of the system," said carlo saldarriaga, technic coordin at cepe. farmer ar also take extra lesson on how to appli the new inform to make the most of their plot of land. the board of irrig user which run the comput centr, aim to make the network self-sustain within three year, through the cash gener by us the telecentr as internet cafe.

on of the kei element of the project is the agricultur inform system, with it flagship huaral.org websit. there, farmer can find the price for local produc, as well as inform on topic rang from plagu prevent to the latest farm techniqu. the system also help the inhabit of the chancai-huaral vallei to organis their vital irrig system. "water is the main element that unit them all. it is a preciou element in peru's coastal area, becaus it is so scarc, and therefor it is necessari to have proper irrig system to make the most of it," mr saldarriaga told the bbc new websit. the inform network also allow farmer to look beyond their own region, and share experi with other colleagu from the rest of peru and even around the world.

cepe sai the involv of the farmer ha been kei in the project's success. "throughout the last three year, the peopl have provid a vital thrust to the project; thei feel it belong to them," said mr saldarriaga. the commun train session, attend by an equal number of men and women, have been the perfect showcas for their enthusiasm. "we have had an excel respons, mainli from young peopl. but we have also had a great feedback when we train 40 or 50-year old women, who were see a comput for the first time in their live." so far, the huaral programm promot sai the experi ha been veri posit, and ar alreadi plan on spread the model among other farmer' organis in peru. "thi is a pilot project, and we have been veri keen on it clone potenti in other place," underlin mr saldarriaga.

the cepe research recal what happen in cuyo, a 50-famili commun with no electr, dure the construct of the local telecentr site. there it wa necessari to build a mini-hydraul dam in order to gener 2kw worth of power for the comput, the commun equip and the cabin light. "it wa alreadi dark when the technician realis thei didn't have ani light bulb to test the gener, so thei turn up to the local store to bui light bulb," recal carlo saldarriaga. "the logic answer wa 'we don't sell ani', so thei had to wait until the next morn to do the test." now, with the wireless network, cuyo as well as the other commun is no longer isol.
