googl's toolbar spark concern

search engin firm googl ha releas a trial tool which is concern some net user becaus it direct peopl to pre-select commerci websit.

the autolink featur come with googl's latest toolbar and provid link in a webpag to amazon.com if it find a book's isbn number on the site. it also link to googl's map servic, if there is an address, or to car firm carfax, if there is a licenc plate. googl said the featur, avail onli in the us, "add us link". but some user ar concern that googl's domin posit in the search engin market place could mean it would be give a competit edg to firm like amazon.

autolink work by creat a link to a websit base on inform contain in a webpag - even if there is no link specifi and whether or not the publish of the page ha given permiss.

if a user click the autolink featur in the googl toolbar then a webpag with a book's uniqu isbn number would link directli to amazon's websit. it could mean onlin librari that list isbn book number find thei ar direct user to amazon.com whether thei like it or not. websit which have paid for advertis on their page mai also be direct peopl to rival servic. dan gillmor, founder of grassroot media, which support citizen-base media, said the tool wa a "bad idea, and an unfortun move by a compani that is look to continu it hypergrowth". in a statement googl said the featur wa still onli in beta, ie trial, stage and that the compani welcom feedback from user. it said: "the user can choos never to click on the autolink button, and web page she view will never be modifi. "in addit, the user can choos to disabl the autolink featur entir at ani time."

the new tool ha been compar to the smart tag featur from microsoft by some user. it wa wide criticis by net user and later drop by microsoft after concern over trademark us were rais. smart tag allow microsoft to link ani word on a web page to anoth site chosen by the compani. googl said none of the compani which receiv autolink had paid for the servic. some user said autolink would onli be fair if websit had to sign up to allow the featur to work on their page or if thei receiv revenu for ani "click through" to a commerci site. cori doctorow, european outreach coordin for digit civil liberti group electron fronter foundat, said that googl should not be penalis for it market domin. "of cours googl should be allow to direct peopl to whatev proxi it choos. "but as an end user i would want to know - 'can i choos to us thi servic?, 'how much is googl be paid?', 'can i substitut my own compani for the on chosen by googl?'." mr doctorow said the onli object would be if user were forc into us autolink or "trick into us the servic".
