uk net user lead tv download

british tv viewer lead the trend of illeg download us show from the net, accord to research.

new episod of 24, desper housew and six feet under, appear on the web hour after thei ar shown in the us, said a report. web track compani envision said 18% of download were from within the uk and that download of tv programm had increas by 150% in the last year. about 70% were us file-share program bittorr, the firm said. "it's now as easi to download a pirat tv show as it is to programm a vcr," said ben coppin from envision. a typic episod of 24 wa download by about 100,000 peopl global, said the report, and an estim 20,000 of those were from within the uk.

fan of mani popular us tv programm, like 24, usual have to wait week or month until the latest seri is shown in the uk. but in some case, said the report, peopl were abl to watch the new episod in britain befor us audienc on the west coast of the countri. "miss a televis show present littl problem to anyon with a basic knowledg of the internet," explain mr coppin.

"two click and your favourit programm is download. in effect, the internet is now a global video record." exact figur ar difficult to pin down, but it is thought that about 80,000 to 100,000 peopl in the uk download tv programm. some mai just want the odd episod, other ar download regularli. mani broadcast analyst agre that the net is radic alter the wai peopl get content, like tv programm. thi present a challeng to broadcast who ar concern that channel schedul mai becom less import to peopl. it is also of concern to them becaus advertis ar usual cut out of the download programm. the industri ha coin the term "time-shift" to describ thi trend of be abl to watch what you want, when you want. the increas popular of person digit video record, tivo-type box which automat record programm like sky+, have also contribut to the trend. there ar also numer program avail on the net which automat search and store tv programm for viewer, effect creat a person video record on a comput.

within half an hour, record episod can be upload - or post - onto file-share network or other download site. becaus thei tend to be shorter then full-length film, thei can be process - digitis - quickli. more peopl with high-speed broadband connect in the uk also mean that episod can be download quickli.

accord to jupit research 40% of home with broadband sai it help them pick and choos the programm thei want to see or that friend have recommend. the envision report said that the tv industri should consid offer a legal wai to download show. the bbc ran a trial of what it call the interact media player (imp) last year, which wa base on a peer-to-peer distribut model. it let peopl download programm it held the right to up to eight dai after thei had alreadi air. it is look to do a more expans trial later thi year. the bbc alreadi allow radio fan to hear programm thei miss onlin up to a week after broadcast. about six million peopl in the uk now have a fast, alwai-on net connect via cabl or phone line.
