uk pioneer digit film network

the world's first digit cinema network will be establish in the uk over the next 18 month.

the uk film council ha award a contract worth £11.5m to art allianc digit cinema (aadc), who will set up the network of up to 250 screen. aadc will overse the select of cinema across the uk which will us the digit equip. high definit projector and comput server will be instal to show mainli british and specialist film. most cinema current have mechan projector but the new network will see up to 250 screen in up to 150 cinema fit with digit projector capabl of displai high definit imag. the new network will doubl the world's total of digit screen. cinema will be given the film on a portabl hard drive and thei will then copi the content to a comput server.

each film is about 100 gigabyt and ha been compress from an origin on terabyt-size file. fiona dean, associ director of aadc, said the compress wa visual lossless so no pictur degrad will occur.

the film will all be encrypt to prevent piraci and each cinema will have an individu kei which will unlock the movi. "peopl will see the pictur qualiti is a bit clearer with no scratch. "the pictur will look exactli the same as when the print wa first made - there is no degrad in qualiti over time."

the kei benefit of the digit network will be an increas in the distribut and screen of british film, documentari and foreign languag film.

"access to specialis film is current restrict across the uk," said pete buckingham, head of distribut and exhibit at the uk film council. "although a genuin varieti of film is avail in central london and a few other metropolitan area, the choic for mani outsid these area remain limit, and the digit screen network will improv access for audienc across the uk," digit print cost less than a tradit 35mm print - give distributor more flexibl in how thei screen film, said ms dean. "it can cost up to £1,500 to make a copi of a print for specialist film. "in the digit world you can make print for consider less than that. "distributor can then send out print to more cinema and print can stai in cinema for much longer." the uk digit network will be the first to emploi 2k projector - which ar capabl of show film at resolut of 2048 * 1080 pixel. a separ competit process to determin which cinema will receiv the digit screen technolog will conclud in mai. the sheer cost of tradit print mean that some cinema need to show them twice a dai in order to recoup cost. "some film need word of mouth and time to build momentum - thei don't need to be shown twice a dai," explain ms dean. "a cinema will often book a 35mm print in for two week - even if the film is a roar success thei cannot hold on to the print becaus it will have to go to anoth cinema. "with digit print, everi cinema will have it own copi."
