global blogger action dai call

the global web blog commun is be call into action to lend support to two imprison iranian blogger.

the month-old committe to protect blogger' is ask those with blog to dedic their site on 22 februari to the "free mojtaba and arash dai". arash sigarchi and mojtaba saminejad ar both in prison in iran. blog ar free site through which peopl publish thought and opinion. iranian author have been clamp down on promin site for some time. "i hope thi dai will focu peopl," curt hopkin, director of the committe, told the bbc new websit.

the group ha a list of action which it sai blogger can take, includ write to local iranian embassi. the committe ha deem tuesdai "free mojtaba and arash dai" as part of it first campaign. it is call on the blogspher - the name for the worldwid commun of blogger - to do what it can to help rais awar of the plight of mojtaba and arash as well as other "cyber-dissid". "if you have a blog, the least you could do is put noth on that blog except 'free mojtaba and arash dai'," said mr hopkin. "that would mean you could see that phrase 7.1 million time. that alon will shine some light on the situat. "if you don't have on, find on dedic to that - it take about 30 second." technorati, a blog search engin, track about six million blog and sai that more than 12,000 ar ad daili. a blog is creat everi 5.8 second, accord to a us research think-tank.

the committe to protect blogger wa start by us blogger curt hopkin and count fire flight attend blogger ellen simonetti as a deputi director. she ha sinc start the intern blogger' bill of right, a global petit to protect blogger at work. although not the onli websit commit to human right issu by ani mean, it aim to be the hub or organis, inform and support for blogger in particular and their right to freedom of speech.

the committe, although onli a month old, aim to be the focal point for blogger action on similar issu in the futur, and will oper as a non-for-profit organis. "blog is in thi weird no man's land. peopl think of it as be on thing or anoth depend on their point of view," said mr hopkin. "some think of themselv as pundit, kind of like journalist, and some like me have a privat blog which is just a publish platform. "but thei do not have a constitu and ar out there in the cold."

it is not just human right issu in countri which have a track record of restrict what is publish in the media that is of concern to blogger. the question of blogger and what right thei have to sai what thei want on their site is a thorni on and ha receiv much press attent recent. high profil case in which employe have been sack for what thei have said on their person, and often anonym blog, have highlight the muddi situat that the blogspher is current in.

"thi is a big messi argument," explain mr hopkin. he ad: "it is just such a new wai of do busi, there will be clamp down." but the wai these issu get test is through the court which, said mr hopkin, "is part of the whole messi convers." "if you haven't alreadi got blogger in your compani, you will have them tomorrow - and if you don't have a blogger polici now you had better start look at have on. mr hopkin said that the blogspher - which is doubl everi five month - wa power becaus it take so littl time and expertis to creat a blog. "everyon doe thi - mum, radic, conserv," he said. mani compani offer easi-to-us servic to creat a blog and publish it in minut to a global commun. "that is the essenti differ. what i call 'templat softwar' give everi singl person on earth the chanc to have on. "you don't even have to have your own comput."
