find new home for old phone

re-us old mobil phone is not just good for the environ, it ha social benefit too.

research ha found that in some develop nation old mobil phone can help close the digit divid. the forum for the futur research found that the low cost of these recycl handset mean thei can have a veri us second life in poorer nation. but the forum found that more need to be done to collect old phone rather than let them rot in landfil site.

the report reveal that approxim 15 million mobil phone go out of us everi year in the uk. of the 15 million that ar swap for newer model each year, onli 25% get return to mobil phone firm for recycl or re-us. the slowli grow mass of unrecycl, discard phone ha now reach 90 million handset, the equival of 9,000 tonn of wast, estim jame goodman, report author and a senior advis at the forum for the futur. "it's quit common for peopl to have two or three phone just ly around," said mr goodman.

mani of these older phone could end up in landfil site leak the potenti toxic materi thei ar made of into the wider world, said mr goodman. far better, he said, to hand the phone back to an oper who can send it oversea where it can enjoi a second leas of life. "we've heard the environment argument for hand a phone back," said mr goodman, "but there's a strong social argument too." older mobil phone ar prove particularli us in poorer nation where peopl want to us a mobil and keep in touch with friend and famili but do not have the incom to bui the most up to date model. the forum for the futur report took an in-depth look at romania where recondit mobil phone were prove veri popular. "it's an interest countri becaus it ha a realli crap fix line network," said mr goodman, "and there's a real desir for peopl to get mobil phone." but the rel low wage in romania, which is on of the poorest countri in europ, mean few peopl can afford a shini new phone. "the afford of the handset is a real barrier to get on," he said. recondit handset have boost take-up of mobil as the report reveal that almost on-third of romanian pre-pai mobil phone user were us recondit handset. the re-us handset tend to be about on-third of the price of a new handset. georgeta minciu, a romanian part-time cleaner, said: "normal a mobil phone would not be possibl on my wage. i am a singl parent - keep in touch with my daughter is import to me." "thi is the onli wai i can afford to have a phone," she said. mr goodman said phone oper and consum need to do more to ensur that more of britain's mobil mountain made it oversea. but, he ad, those keen to us a mobil will not accept ani old handset. "if it more than a few year old peopl ar not go to want it," he said.
