secur scare spark browser fix

microsoft is work on a new version of it internet explor web browser.

the revamp ha been prompt by microsoft's grow concern with secur as well as increas competit from rival browser. microsoft said the new version will be far less vulner to the bug that make it current browser a favourit of tech-savvi crimin. test version of the new program, call ie 7, ar due to be releas by the summer.

the announc about internet explor wa made by bill gate, microsoft chairman and chief softwar architect, dure a keynot speech at the rsa secur confer current be held in san francisco. although detail were scant, mr gate, said ie7 would includ new protect against virus, spywar and phish scam. thi last categori of threat involv crimin set up spoof websit that look ident to those of bank and try to trick peopl into hand over login and account inform.

in a bid to shore up the poor secur in ie 6, microsoft ha regularli issu updat to patch loophol exploit by crimin and the maker of nuisanc program such as spywar. earlier thi month it releas a secur bulletin that patch eight critic secur hole - some of which were found in the ie browser. microsoft ha also made a seri of acquisit of small firm that specialis in comput secur. on of the first fruit of these acquisit appear last month with the releas of a microsoft anti-spywar program. an own-brand anti-viru program is due to follow by the end of 2005. the decis to make internet explor 7 is wide seen as a u-turn becaus, befor now, microsoft said it had no need to updat the browser. typic new version of it browser appear with success version of the window oper system. a new version of ie wa wide expect to debut with the next version of window, codenam longhorn, which is due to appear in 2006. the current version of internet explor is four year old, and is wide seen as fall behind rival such as firefox and opera. there ar also persist rumour that search engin googl is pois to produc it own brand browser base on firefox. in particular the firefox browser ha been win fan and user sinc it first full version wa releas in novemb 2004. estim of how mani user firefox ha won over vari wide. accord to market statist gather by websidestori, firefox's market share is now about 5% of all user. howev, other browser stat gather sai the figur is closer to 15%. some technic websit report that a major of their visitor us the firefox browser. internet explor still domin with a share of about 90% but thi is down from a peak of almost 96% in mid-2004.
