laser help bridg network gap

an indian telecommun firm ha turn to laser to help it overcom the problem of set up voic and data network in the countri.

tata teleservic is us the laser to make the link between custom' offic and it own core network. the laser bridg work across distanc up to 4km and can be set up much faster than cabl connect. in 12 month the laser have help the firm set up network in more than 700 locat.

"in thi particular geographi get permiss to dig the ground and lai the pipe is a bit of a task," said mr r. sridharan, vice presid of network at tata. "heavi traffic and the layout under the ground mean that dig is uniqu difficult," he said. in some locat, he said, permiss to dig up road and lai cabl wa imposs to get. he said it wa far easier to secur permiss for put network hardwar on roof. thi ha led chennai-base tata to turn to equip that us laser to make the final mile leap between tata's core network and the premis of custom. the lightpoint laser bridg work over distanc of up to 4km and ar be us to rout both voic and data from busi on to the backbon of the network. the hardwar work in pair and beam data through the air in the form of laser puls.

the laser bridg can rout data at speed up to 1.25gbp (2,000 time faster than a 512kbp broadband connect) but tata is run it hardwar at more modest speed of 1-2mbp. the laser ar also ideal for india becaus of it climat. "it's particularli suitabl as the rain rate is a littl low and it's hardli ever foggi," he said. in place where rain is heavi and fog is common laser link can struggl to maintain good connect speed. the laser link also take far less time to set up and get work, said mr sridharan. "onc we get the other permiss, normal time period for set up is a few hour," he said. by contrast, he said, dig up road and lai cabl can take week or month. thi speed of set up ha help tata with it aggress expans plan. just over 12 month ago the firm had custom in onli about 70 town and citi. but by the end of march the firm hope to reach more than 1,000. "speed is veri import becaus of the pace of competit," said mr sridharan.
