warn about junk mail delug

the amount of spam circul onlin could be about to undergo a massiv increas, sai expert.

anti-spam group spamhau is warn about a novel viru which hide the origin of junk mail. the program make spam look like it is be sent by legitim mail server make it hard to spot and filter out. spamhau said that if the problem went uncheck real e-mail messag could get drown by the sheer amount of junk be sent.

befor now mani spammer have recruit home pc to act as anonym e-mail relai in an attempt to hide the origin of their junk mail. the pc ar recruit us virus and worm that compromis machin via known vulner or by trick peopl into open an attach infect with the malici program. onc compromis the machin start to pump out junk mail on behalf of spammer. spamhau help to block junk messag from these machin by collect and circul blacklist of net address known to harbour infect machin. but the novel worm spot recent by spamhau rout junk via the mail server of the net servic firm that infect machin us to get onlin in the first place. in thi wai the junk mail get a net address that look legitim. as block all mail from net firm just to catch the spam is impract, spamhau is worri that the techniqu will give junk mailer the abil to spam with littl fear of be spot and stop. steve linford, director of spamhau, predict that if a lot of spammer exploit thi techniqu it could trigger the failur of the net's e-mail send infrastructur. david stanlei, uk manag director of filter firm ciphertrust, said the new techniqu wa the next logic step for spammer. "thei ar ad to their armouri," he said. the amount of spam in circul wa still grow, said mr stanlei, but he did not think that the appear of thi trick would mean e-mail meltdown. but kevin hogan, senior manag at symantec secur respons, said such warn were prematur. "if someth like thi mean the end of e-mail then e-mail would have stop two-three year ago," said mr hogan. while the techniqu of rout mail via mail server of net servic firm might caus problem for those that us blacklist and block list it did not mean that other techniqu for stop spam lost their efficaci too. mr hogan said 90% of the junk mail filter by symantec subsidiari brightmail wa spot us techniqu that did not reli on look at net address. for instanc, said mr hogan, filter out e-mail messag that contain a web link can stop about 75% of spam.
