warn over tsunami aid websit

net user ar be told to avoid a scam websit that claim to collect cash on behalf of tsunami victim.

the site look plausibl becaus it us an old version of the offici disast emerg committe webpag. howev, dec ha no connect with the fake site and sai it ha contact the polic about it. the site is just the latest in a long list of scam that try to cash in on the goodwil gener by the tsunami disast.

the link to the websit is contain in a spam e-mail that is current circul. the messag's subject line read "urgent tsunami earthquak appeal" and it text bear all the poor grammar and bad spell that characteris mani other phish attempt. the web address of the fake site is decuk.org which could be close enough to the offici www.dec.org.uk address to confus some peopl keen to donat. patricia sander, spokeswoman for the disast emerg committe said it wa awar of the site and had contact the comput crime unit at scotland yard to help get it shut down. she said the spam e-mail direct peopl to the site start circul two dai ago shortli after the domain name of the site wa regist. it is thought that the fake site is be run from romania. ms sander said dec had contact us net registrar who handl domain ownership and the net host firm that is keep the site on the web.

dec wa go to push for all cash donat via the site to be hand over to the offici organis. bt and dec's host compani were also make effort to get the site shut down, she said.

ms sander said send out spam e-mail to solicit donat wa not dec's style and that it would never canvass support in thi wai. she said that dec hope to get the fake site shut down as soon as possibl. all attempt by the bbc new websit to contact the peopl behind the site have fail. none of the e-mail address suppli on the site work and the real owner of the domain is obscur in publicli avail net record. thi is not the first attempt to cash in on the outpour of goodwil that ha accompani appeal for tsunami aid. on e-mail sent out in earli januari came from someon who claim that he had lost hi parent in the disast and wa ask for help move an inherit from a bank account in the netherland. the con wa veri similar to the familiar nigerian forward fee fraud e-mail that milk monei out of peopl by promis them a cut of a much larger cash pile. other scam e-mail includ a link to a websit that supposedli let peopl donat monei but instead load spywar on their comput that grab confidenti inform. in a monthli report anti-viru firm sopho said that two e-mail messag about the tsunami made it to the top 10 hoax list dure januari. anoth tsunami-relat e-mail is also circul that carri the zar worm which tri to spread via the familiar rout of microsoft's outlook e-mail program. anyon open the attach of the mail will have their contact list plunder by the worm keen to find new address to send itself to.
