piero give rugbi perspect

bbc sport unveil it new analysi tool piero at the wale v england rugbi union match on saturdai. but what doe it do and how doe it work?

pictur the scene - wale ar camp on the england line in the dy second of the six nation' open match. a ball is flung out to winger shane william who cross to score the win try for wale. but the england player ar incens - argu that the pass wa forward and the try should not stand. in the past, sport fan would be left debat the valid of the try for dai and week to come. but bbc sport's new tool piero could end discuss in minut.

piero, name after the italian painter and pioneer of perspect piero della francesco, creat a virtual stadium in which virtual player can be track from almost ani angl. viewer will be abl to see precis how the ball wa thrown and by whom, give a greater depth to the grow wealth of analysi avail dure sport broadcast. the technolog ha been creat by bbc research and develop for bbc broadcast and bbc outsid broadcast. bbc sport is the first client to start us the system. "in order to keep audienc grow and grow... we need to work close with peopl who creat technolog and innov to bring sport to life," said andrew thompson, the bbc's head of develop, new media and sport new. "we want to appeal to core fan - to give them more analysi, more detail, more definit answer about kei passag of plai." piero work by take telemetr data from fix camera posit and send that data insid the video signal to a pc which can then render the inform into 3d graphic.

the more camera us piero, the better the detail possibl out the other end when the data is turn into 3d model. "it allow us to tell the stori of a passag of plai, track individu player across the field, look at tactic," said andi townsend, from bbc broadcast.

an oper can manipul the inform and provid almost real-time replai of incid, as well as more in-depth analysi. the "virtual camera" can focu on virtual ani aspect of the pitch, give viewer an insight into action that the camera normal cannot see. piero also provid a wealth of statist detail - from the length of kick, to the length of a run of an individu player and the height of a lift at ani lineout. mr townsend said sport perform compani were alreadi show an interest in the technolog. bbc broadcast hope the technolog can be sold to third parti interest in us it a number of differ wai - from sport broadcast to entertain and game show.
