open sourc leader slam patent

the war of word between microsoft and the open sourc movement heat up thi week as linux founder linu torvald led an attack on softwar patent.

in a panel discuss at a linux summit in california mr torvald said softwar patent were a problem for the open sourc movement. mitchel kapor, chairman of the mozilla foundat, warn that microsoft could us patent lawsuit in the futur. linux is a freeli-avail altern to microsoft's window. it reli on a commun of programm for it develop and is base on open sourc principl, which allow other to us and modifi it without have to pai licenc fee. the attack on softwar patent come at a time when ibm ha made 500 of it patent freeli avail. other compani ar expect to follow suit.

there ar between 150,000 and 300,000 regist softwar patent in the us and open sourc develop argu that mani should never have been grant. thi is a view corrobor by the uk patent offic. "some of the patent have dubiou valid and ar be wield by some big compani to forc smaller compani to bui licens in the knowledg that thei can't afford to take them to court," said dr jeremi philpott of the uk patent offic. some panel member ar worri that microsoft would issu a seri of patent lawsuit in the futur. "if total push to the wall - becaus their busi model no longer hold up in an era in which open sourc is an econom superior wai to produc softwar...of cours thei're go to unleash the wmd," mr kapor is report as sai. microsoft did not want to comment directli, refer the issu instead to trade bodi intellect, of which it is a member. "as far as intellect is concern, open sourc and patent have co-exist for mani year without problem," said spokeswoman jill sutherland. "the industri respect the open sourc movement and in fact mani of the member we repres us the open sourc system to develop softwar," "we think the import point to make is that compani should be abl to choos between patent, copyright and open sourc as to the treatment of their intellectu discoveri, and not be forc into us on or the other," she ad.
