solut to net secur fear

fake bank e-mail, or phish, and stori about id theft ar damag the potenti of us the net for onlin commerc, sai e-busi expert.

trust in onlin secur is fall as a result. almost 70% of those ask in a poll said that net firm ar not do enough to protect peopl. the survei of more than 1,000 peopl report that 43% were not will to hand over person inform onlin. it is worri for shopahol and firm who want to exploit the net. more peopl ar becom awar of onlin secur issu but thei have littl confid that compani ar do enough to counter the threat, said secur firm rsa, which carri out the poll. an estim 12 million briton now us the net as a wai of manag their financi affair. secur expert sai that scare stori and the vulner dog e-commerc and e-bank ar be taken serious - by bank in particular.

"i don't think the threat is overplai," barri beal, global secur manag for capgemini, told the bbc new websit. he ad: "the challeng for bank is to provid the custom with someth that improv secur but balanc that with usabl." ensur extra secur measur ar in place protect them too, as well as the individu, and it is up to both parti to make sure thei do what is necessari to prevent fraud, he said. "card issuer will keep us inform of type of attack and what procedur to take to protect ourselv. if we do that, thei will indemnifi us," he said. mani believ us login detail like usernam and password ar simpli not good enough anymor though. on of the biggest challeng to improv secur onlin is how to authent an individu's ident. sever secur compani have develop method which complement or replac password, which ar easili compromis and easi to forget. last year, a street survei found that more than 70% of peopl would reveal their password for a bar of chocol.

on averag, peopl have to rememb four differ password. some resort to us the same on for all their onlin account. those who us sever password often write them down and hide them in a desk or in a document on their comput. in a separ survei by rsa, 80% said thei were fed up with password and would like a better wai to login to work comput system. for mani, the ideal is a singl onlin ident that can be valid onc with a seri of password and question, or some biometr measur like a fingerprint or iri scan with a token like a smartcard.

activcard is just on of the mani compani, like rsa secur, which ha been try to come up with just that. rsa ha a deal with internet provid aol that let peopl pai monthli for a on-time passcod gener servic. user get a physic token which automat gener a code which stai activ for 60 second. mani compani us a token-base method alreadi for employe to access network secur alreadi. activcard's method is more complex. it is current trail it on-time passcod gener technolog with uk bank. steve ash, from activcard, told the bbc new websit there ar two part to the process of identif. the most difficult is to ascertain whether an individu is who thei sai thei ar when thei ar onlin.

"the end solut is to provid a method where you combin someth the user know with someth thei have and present those both." the method it ha develop make us of the chip embed in bank card and a special card reader which can gener uniqu code that ar activ for a specifi amount of time. thi can be adjust at ani time and can be activ for as littl as 30 second befor it chang. it combin that with usual usernam and password, as well as other secur question. "you take the card, put it in the reader, enter your pin number, and a code is given. "if you want then to transfer fund, for instanc, you would have to have the code to authoris the transact." the clever bit happen back at the bank's secur server. the code is valid by the bank's system, match the inform thei expect with the custom's uniqu kei. "each individu get a kei which is uniqu to them. it is a 2048-bit long number that is virtual imposs to crack," said mr ash. it mean that in a typic secur attack, explain mr ash, even if password inform is captur by a scammer us keystrok softwar or just through spoof websit, thei need the passcod. "by the time thei go back [to us the inform], the code ha expir, so thei can't prove who thei ar," accord to mr ash. in the next few year, mr ash predict that thi kind of method will be commonplac befor we see biometr authent that is accept for widespread us. "pc will have reader built into them, the cost of reader will be veri cheap, and more peopl will have the card." the gadget we carri around, like person digit assist (pda) and mobil, could also have integr card reader technolog in them. "the pda or phone method is a possibl altern as peopl ar alwai carri phone around," he said.
