mobil network seek turbo boost

third-gener mobil (3g) network need to get faster if thei ar to deliv fast internet surf on the move and excit new servic.

that wa on of the messag from the mobil industri at the 3gsm world congress in cann last week. fast 3g network ar here but the focu ha shift to their evolut into a higher bandwidth servic, sai the global mobil supplier associ. at 3gsm, siemen show off a system that transmit faster mobil data. the german compani said data could be transmit at on gigabit a second - up to 20 time faster than current 3g network. the system is not avail commerci yet, but motorola, the us mobil handset and infrastructur maker, held a clinic for mobil oper on hsdpa (high speed downlink packet access), a high-speed, high bandwidth technolog avail now. earli hsdpa system typic offer around two megabit per second (mbp) compar with less than 384 kilobit per second (kbp) on standard 3g network.

"high-speed downlink packet access (hsdpa) - sometim call super 3g - will be vital for profit servic like mobil internet brows and mobil video clip," accord to a report publish by uk-base research consult analysi. a number of compani ar develop the technolog. nokia and canada-base wireless commun product compani sierra wireless recent agre to work togeth on high speed downlink packet access. the two compani aim to jointli market the hsdpa solut to global network oper custom.

"while hsdpa theoret enabl data rate up to a maximum of 14mbp, practic throughput will be lower than thi in wide-area network," said dr alastair brydon, author of the analysi report: push beyond the limit of 3g with hsdpa and other enhanc. "the typic averag user rate in a real implement is like to be in the region of on megabit per second which, even at thi lower rate, will more than doubl the capac... when compar to basic wcdma [3g]," he ad. motorola ha conduct five trial of it technolog and sai speed of 2.9mbp have been record at the edg of an outdoor 3g cell us a singl hsdpa devic. but some mobil oper ar opt for a technolog call evolut, data optimis (ev-do).

us oper sprint order a broadband data upgrad to it 3g network at the end of last year. we ar "expand our network and deploi ev-do technolog to meet custom demand for faster wireless speed," said oliv valent, sprint's vice presid for technolog develop, when the contract wa announc. as part of $3bn in multi-year contract announc late last year, sprint will spend around $1bn on ev-do technolog from lucent technolog, nortel network and motorola that provid averag data speed of 0.3-0.5 megabit a second, and peak download rate of 2.4mbp. mmo2, the uk-base oper with servic in the uk, ireland and germani, ha opt for technolog base on the high speed downlink packet access (hsdpa) standard. us technolog from lucent, it will offer data speed of 3.6mbp from next summer on it isl of man 3g network, and will eventu support speed of up to 14.4mbp. us oper cingular wireless is also adopt hsdpa, us technolog from lucent alongsid equip from siemen and ericsson.

siemen' plan for a on gigabit network mai be more than a user need todai, but christoph caselitz, presid of the mobil network divis at the firm sai that: "by the time the next gener of mobil commun debut in 2015, the need for transmiss capac for voic, data, imag and multimedia is conserv anticip to rise by a factor of 10." siemen - in collabor with the fraunhof german-sino lab for mobil commun and the institut for appli radio system technolog - ha soup up mobil commun by us three transmit and four receiv antenna, instead of the usual on. thi enabl a data transmiss, such as send a big file or video, to be broken up into differ flow of data that can be sent simultan over on radio frequenc band. the speed offer by3g mobil seem fast at the time mobil oper were pai huge sum for 3g licenc. but todai, instead of connect to the internet by slow, dial-up phone connect, mani peopl ar us to broadband network that offer speed of 0.5 megabit a second - must faster than 3g. thi mean user ar like to find 3g disappoint unless the network ar soup up. if thei aren't, those lucr "power user", such as comput geek and busi busi peopl will avoid them for all but the most urgent task, reduc the potenti revenu avail to mobil oper. but on gigabit a second system will not be avail immedi. siemen sai that though the system work in the laboratori, it still ha to assess the mobil of multipl-antenna devic and conduct field trial. a commerci system could be as far awai as 2012, though siemen did not rule out an earlier date.
