uk get offici viru alert site

a rapid alert servic that tell home comput user about seriou internet secur problem is be launch by the uk govern.

the servic, it safe, will issu warn about damag virus, softwar vulner and weak on devic such as mobil phone. alert tell peopl how the threat affect them and what thei can do to avoid troubl and protect themselv. the servic will be free and those who sign up can get e-mail or text alert. the scheme is aim at home user and small busi. the govern estim it will issu secur alert about six to 10 time a year, base on previou experi of viru outbreak. "there is a clear need for easi-to-understand and simpl independ advic for non-technic mind peopl who us comput either at home or at work," said home offic minist hazel blear. "the purpos of thi new govern servic is to ensur comput user ar awar of the risk involv and how to deal with them easili and effect without caus alarm." those sign up will onli be told about the most seriou secur threat that have the potenti to affect million of peopl.

full-time staff ar be emploi to comb through the mani hundr of alert issu each year by comput secur firm to spot which on have the potenti to catch out a larg number of peopl between alert the servic will occasion send messag give peopl advic about safe wai to us their comput and phone. "it safe will take our technic expertis and us it to help home user understand the risk and keep their comput system, mobil phone and a rang of relat consum electron item, safe," said roger cum, director of the nation infrastructur secur coordin centr (niscc).

the niscc, which is run the servic, also stress that those sign up would still need to us anti-viru softwar, firewal, and softwar updat to stai secur. warn about secur problem will tell peopl what the problem is, how it affect them and what thei can do to avoid troubl. alert will not be issu unless user can do someth to protect themselv against the threat. thi might includ download an updat from an anti-viru vendor or updat softwar to close loophol and fix vulner. howev no softwar patch or program will actual be dispens through the site. the alert will tell peopl how to go about get hold of patch from secur firm. the niscc spokesman said the site and alert servic would stai in exist for as long as there were secur bug on home comput and other gadget.

govern statist show that more than half of all uk household own a home comput. it wa estim that almost 13 million of these were abl to access the internet in 2004. the launch come as the number of virus and other malici program in exist is reach unpreced number. in septemb 2004, the number of malici program circul top the 100,000 mark. some fear that thi figur could hit 150,000 by septemb 2005. the creation of the nation alert servic follow similar effort in the netherland and us. the nation alert servic for the netherland (aka de waarschuwingsdienst) and the us nation cyber alert servic also tell citizen of seriou secur threat.
