iran jail blogger for 14 year

an iranian weblogg ha been jail for 14 year on charg of spy and aid foreign counter-revolutionari.

arash sigarchi wa arrest last month after us hi blog to criticis the arrest of other onlin journalist. mr sigarchi, who also edit a newspap in northern iran, wa sentenc by a revolutionari court in the gilan area. hi sentenc, criticis by human right watchdog report without border, come a dai after an onlin "dai of action" to secur hi releas. iranian author have recent clamp down on the grow popular of weblog, restrict access to major blog site from within iran. a second iranian blogger, motjaba saminejad, who also us hi websit to report on blogger' arrest, is still be held.

a spokesman for report without border, which track press freedom across the globe, describ mr sigarchi's sentenc as "harsh" and call on iranian presid moham khatami to work to secur hi immedi releas. "the author ar try to make an exampl of him," the organis said in a statement.

"by hand down thi harsh sentenc against a weblogg, their aim is to dissuad journalist and internet-user from express themselv onlin or contact foreign media." in the dai befor hi arrest mr sigarchi gave interview to the bbc persian servic and the us-fund radio farda. iranian author have arrest about 20 onlin journalist dure the current crackdown. thei accus mr sigarchi of a string of crime against iranian state, includ espionag, insult the founder of iran's islam republ, ayatollah ruhollah khomenei, and current suprem leader ayatollah ali khamenei. mr sigarchi's lawyer label the revolutionari court "illeg and incompet" and call for a retrial in a public court.

mr sigarchi wa sentenc on dai after an onlin campaign highlight hi case in a dai of action in defenc of blogger around the world.

the committe to protect blogger design 22 februari 2005 as free mojtaba and arash dai. around 10,000 peopl visit the campaign's websit dure the dai. about 12% of user were base in iran, the campaign's director told the bbc new websit. curt hopkin said mr sigarchi's sentenc would not dent the resolv of blogger join the campaign to help highlight the case. "the ey of 8 million blogger ar go to be more focus on iran sinc sigarchi's sentenc, not less. "the mullah won't be abl to make a move without it be spread across the blogospher."
