t-mobil bet on 'pocket offic'

t-mobil ha launch it latest "pocket offic" third-gener (3g) devic which also ha built-in wi-fi - high-speed wireless net access.

unlik other devic where the user ha to check which high-speed network is avail to transfer data, the devic select the fastest on itself. the mda iv, releas in the summer, is an upgrad to the compani's exist smartphon, the 2.5g/wi-fi mda iii. it reflect the push by mobil firm for devic that ar like mini laptop. the devic ha a displai that can be swivel and angl so it can be us like a small comput, or as a convent clamshel phone. the microsoft mobil phone, with two camera and a qwerti keyboard, reflect the design of similar all-in-on model releas thi year, such as motorola's mpx. "on in five european worker ar alreadi mobil - mean thei spend signific time travel and out of the offic," rene obermann, t-mobil's chief execut, told a press confer at the 3gsm trade show in cann. he ad: "what thei need is their offic when thei ar out of the offic." t-mobil said it wa see increas take up for what it call "offic in a pocket" devic, with 100,000 mda sold in europ alreadi.

in respons to demand, t-mobil also said it would be ad the latest phone-shape blackberri to it mobil rang. reflect the grow need to be connect outsid the offic, it announc it would introduc a flat-fee £20 ($38) a month wi-fi tariff for peopl in the uk us it wi-fi hotspot. it said it would nearli doubl the number of it hotspot - place where wi-fi access is avail - global from 12,300 to 20,000.

it also announc it wa instal high-speed wi-fi on certain train servic, such as the uk's london to brighton servic, to provid commut a fast net connect too. the servic, which ha been develop with southern train, nomad digit (who provid the technolog), begin with a free trial on 16 train on the rout from earli march to the end of april. a full servic is set to follow in the summer. wi-fi access point will be connect to a wimax wireless network - faster than wi-fi - run alongsid the train track. brian mcbride, manag director of t-mobil in the uk, said: "we see a grow trend for busi user need to access e-mail secur on the move.

"we ar abl to offer thi by maintain a constant data session for the entir journei." he said thi wa someth other similar in-train wi-fi servic, such as that offer on gner train, did not offer yet. mr obermann ad that the mobil industri in gener wa still grow, with mani more opportun for more servic which would bear fruit for mobil compani in futur. thousand of mobil industri expert ar gather in cann, franc, for the 3gsm which run from 14 to 17 februari.
