domain system scam fear

a system to make it easier to creat websit address us alphabet like cyril could open a back door for scammer, a trade bodi ha warn.

the internationalis domain name system ha been a work in progress for year and ha recent been approv by the internet electron task forc. but the uk internet forum (ukif) is concern that the system will let scammer creat fake site more easili. the problem li in the comput code us to repres languag.

regist name that look like that of legitim compani but lead user to fake site design to steal password and credit card detail could becom a whole lot easier for determin scammer, sai stephen dyer, director of ukif. domain name ar the "real languag" address of websit, rather than their internet protocol address, which is a seri of number. thei ar us so peopl can more easili navig the web. so-call ascii code ar us to repres european languag but for other languag a hybrid of a system call unicod is us. so, for exampl, websit paypal could now be code us a mixtur of the latin alphabet and the russian alphabet. the result domain as displai to the user would look ident to the real site as a russian 'a' look just like an english 'a'. but the comput code would be differ, and the site it would lead user to could be a fake. thi is more than just a theori. a fake paypal.com ha alreadi been regist with net domain giant verisign by someon who ha follow the debat around the internationalis domain name (idn) system, said mr dyer. as the idea wa to prove a point rather than be malici the fake domain ha now been hand back to paypal but it set a worri preced, mr dyer said. "although the idn problem is well known in technic circl, the commerci world is total unawar how easili their websit can be fake," said mr dyer.

"it is import to alert user that there is a new and invis and almost undetect wai of divert them to what look like a perfectli genuin site," he ad. there ar solut. for instanc, browser could spot domain that us mix charact and displai them in differ colour as a warn to user. mr dyer acknowledg that it would be a huge undertak to updat all the world's browser. anoth solut, to introduc idn-disabl browser could be a case of "throw out the babi with the bath water," he said. centr, the council of european nation top level domain registri, agre. "a rush to introduc idn-disabl browser into the marketplac is an overli-zealou step that will harm public confid in idn - a technolog that is desper need in the non-english speak world," the organis said in a statement.
