cheaper chip for mobil

a mobil phone chip which combin a modem and a comput processor on on bit of silicon instead of two could make phone cheaper and more power.

the special-design chip, develop by texa instrument, could drive down the cost of make mobil capabl of 3d game and 30-frame-a-second video. current, rich multimedia featur tend to be on more expens handset. the technolog, omap-vox, is be test by firm in europ and asia and could appear by the end of the year. texa, which make comput chip for more than half the world's mobil phone, said it wa keen to make multimedia function like video and game more afford. "we're go to drive them down into meat-and-potato phone that have the largest market share," said doug rasor, a market vice presid at texa. the chip also us much less power than convent chip, said texa, which mean less strain on mobil batteri life.

more than 50 million peopl own a mobil in the uk, but mobil oper ar keen to encourag peopl to move onto more sophist handset that can do more. texa is keen to cash in on the third gener (3g) of mobil technolog, which offer high-speed network for video stream and other multimedia function. but it face stiff competit from the like of intel which is also look to provid better chip for high-end mobil.

competit to get peopl us 3g mobil will grow in the next year as almost all of the uk's oper have now launch third gener network. a recent survei by soni ericsson predict that the number of 3g handset sold in 2005 would doubl from 2004 to account for 10% of all phone sold. mani consum ar still to be convinc though. a further recent survei said that onli 4% of mobil owner were think of upgrad to 3g phone. mani said thei were confus about the differ wai to pai for phone and the vast arrai of featur most have onboard.

but there will be continu demand for better chip as the industri continu to develop new standard and futur network. earlier in januari, ntt docomo and vodafon join forc to develop the next gener of high-speed network, known as "super 3g", intend to be 10 time faster than 3g servic. the first stage of develop is to be complet by 2007, but no date ha been set for a commerci launch the newli-design omap-vox chip set wa announc ahead of the start of a major mobil industri confer, 3gsm, which take place in cann, franc thi week.
