xbox 2 mai be unveil in summer

detail of the next gener of microsoft's xbox game consol - codenam xenon - will most like be unveil in mai, accord to report.

it wa wide expect that gamer would get a sneak preview of xbox's successor at the game develop confer (gdc) in march. but a microsoft spokeswoman confirm that it would not be at gdc. soni, microsoft and nintendo ar all expect to releas their more power machin in the next 18 month. the next xbox consol is expect to go on sale at the end of the year, but veri few detail about it have been releas. it is thought that the machin mai be unveil at the electron entertain expo (e3) in lo angel, which take place in mai, accord to a reuter new agenc report. e3 concentr on show off the latest in game to publish, market and retail. the gdc is aim more at game develop. microsoft chief, bill gate, us the gdc event to unveil the origin xbox five year ago. sinc it launch, microsoft ha sold 19.9 million unit worldwid.

at the consum electron show earlier thi year, there wa veri littl mention of the next gener game machin. in hi keynot speech, mr gate onli refer to it as plai an essenti part of hi vision of the digit lifestyl.

but the battl between the rival consol to win gamer' heart and thumb will be extrem hard-fought. soni ha tradition domin the consol market with it playstat 2. but earlier thi year, microsoft said it had reach a european mileston, sell five million consol sinc it european launch in march 2002. hit game like halo 2, which wa releas in novemb, help to buoi the sale figur.

gamer ar look forward to the next gener of machin becaus thei will have much more process and graphic power.

thei ar also like to pack in more featur and technolog that make them more central as entertain and commun hub. although detail of playstat 3, xenon, and nintendo's so-call revolut, ar yet to be finalis, develop ar alreadi work on titl. rori arm, studio gener manag for game giant electron art (ea) in europ, recent told the bbc new websit in an interview that ea wa begin to get a sens of the capabl of the new machin. microsoft had deliv develop kit to ea, but he said the compani wa still wait on soni and nintendo's kit. but, he ad, the playstat 3 wa rumour to have "a littl more under the hood [than xbox 2]".
