microsoft launch it own search

microsoft ha unveil the finish version of it home-grown search engin.

the now formal launch msn search site take the train wheel off the test version unveil in novemb 2003. the revamp engin index more page than befor, can give direct answer to factual question, and featur tool to help peopl creat detail queri. microsoft face challeng establish itself as a seriou search site becaus of the intens competit for queri.

googl still reign suprem as the site peopl turn to most often when thei go onlin to answer a queri, keep up with new or search for imag. but in the last year googl ha face greater competit than ever for user as old rival, such as yahoo and microsoft, and new entrant such as amazon and blinkx, try to grab some of the search audienc for themselv. thi renew interest ha come about becaus of the realis that mani of the thing peopl do onlin begin with a search for inform - be it for a particular web page, recip, book, gadget, new stori, imag or anyth els. microsoft is keen to make it home-grown search engin a signific rival to googl. to gener it corpu of data, microsoft ha index 5 billion webpag and claim to updat it document index everi two dai - more often than rival. the microsoft search engin can also answer specif queri directli rather than send peopl to a page that might contain the answer.

for it direct answer featur, microsoft is call on it encarta encyclopaedia to provid answer to question about definit, fact, calcul, convers and solut to equat. toni macklin, director of product at ask jeev, point out that it search engin ha been answer specif queri thi wai sinc april 2003. "the major search provid have move beyond deliv onli algorithm search, so in mani wai microsoft is follow the market," he said. tool sit alongsid the msn search engin allow user to refin result to specif websit, countri, region or languag. microsoft is also us so-call "graphic equalis" that let peopl adjust the relev of term to get result that ar more up-to-date or more popular. the compani said that user feedback from earlier test version had been us to refin the work of the finish system. the test, or beta, version of the msn search engin unveil in novemb had a few teeth troubl. on it first dai mani new user keen to try it were greet with a page that said the site had been overwhelm.
