mobil 'not media player yet'

mobil ar not yet readi to be all-sing, all-danc multimedia devic which will replac portabl media player, sai two report.

despit move to bring music download servic to mobil, peopl do not want to trade multimedia servic with size and batteri life, said jupit. a separ studi by gartner ha also said real-time tv broadcast to mobil is "unlik" in europ until 2007. technic issu and standard must be resolv first, said the report. batteri alreadi have to cope with other servic that oper offer, like video playback, video messag, megapixel camera and game amongst other. bring music download servic base on the success of comput-base download servic will put more demand on batteri life.

fifti percent of european said the size of a mobil wa the most import factor when it came to choos their phone, but more power demand tend to mean larger handset. "mobil phone music servic must not be posit to compet with the pc music experi as the handset ar not yet readi," said thoma husson, mobil analyst at jupit research. "mobil music servic should be new and differ, and enabl oper to differenti their brand and support third gener network launch." other problem face mobil music includ limit storag on phone, compar to portabl player which can hold up to 40gb of music. the mobil industri is keen to get into music download, after the success of appl's itun, napster and other net music download servic.

with phone get smarter and more power, there ar also demand to be abl to watch tv on the move. in the us, servic like tivo to go let peopl transfer pre-record tv content onto their phone. but, the gartner report on mobil tv broadcast in europ suggest direct broadcast will have to wait. current, tv-like servic, where clip ar download, ar offer by sever european oper, like itali's tim and 3. mobil tv will have to overcom sever barrier befor it is wide taken up though, said the report.

variou standard and wai of get tv signal to mobil ar be work on global. in europ, trial in berlin and helsinki ar make us of terrestri tv mast to broadcast compress signal to handset with extra receiv. a servic from the norwegian broadcast corpor let peopl watch tv programm on their mobil 24 hour a dai. the servic us 3gp technolog, on of the standard for mobil tv. but at the end of 2004, the european telecommun institut (etsi) formal adopt digit video broadcast handheld (dvb-h) as the mobil tv broadcast standard for europ. oper will be work on the standard as a wai to bring real-time broadcast to mobil, as well as try to overcom sever other barrier. the cost and infrastructur need to set up the servic will need to be address. handset also need to be abl to work with the dvb-h standard. tv servic will have to live up to the expect of the digit tv gener too, which expect good qualiti imag at low price, accord to analyst. peopl ar also like to be put off watch tv on such small screen, said gartner. digit video record, like europ's sky+ box, and video-on-demand servic mean peopl have much more control over what tv thei watch. as a result, peopl mai see broadcast straight to mobil as take awai that control. more power smartphon like the xda ii, nokia 6600, sonyericsson p900 and the orang e200, offer web access, text and multimedia messag, e-mail, calendar and game ar becom increasingli common. a report by analyst instat/mdr ha predict that smartphon shipment will grow by 44% over the next five year. it sai that smartphon will make up 117 million out of 833 million handset ship global by 2009.
