concern over rfid tag

consum ar veri concern about the us of radio frequenc id (rfid) tag in shop, a survei sai.

more than half of 2,000 peopl survei said thei had privaci worri about the tag, which can be us to monitor stock on shelv or in warehous. some consum group have express concern that the tag could be us to monitor shopper onc thei had left shop with their purchas. the survei show that awar of tag among consum in europ wa low. the survei of consum in the uk, franc, germani and the netherland wa carri out by consult group capgemini. the firm work on behalf of more than 30 firm who ar seek to promot the growth of rfid technolog. the tag ar a combin of comput chip and antenna which can be read by a scanner - each item contain a uniqu identif number.

more than half (55%) of the respond said thei were either concern or veri concern that rfid tag would allow busi to track consum via product purchas. fifti nine percent of peopl said thei were worri that rfid tag would allow data to be us more freeli by third parti. ard jan vetham, capgemini's princip consult on rfid, said the survei show that retail need to inform and educ peopl about rfid befor it would becom accept technolog. "accept of new technolog alwai ha a tip point at which consum believ that benefit outweigh concern. "with the right rfid approach and ongo commun with consum, the industri can reach thi point." he said that the survei also show peopl would accept rfid if thei felt that the technolog could mean a reduct in car theft or faster recoveri of stolen item. the tag ar current be us at on tesco distribut centr in the uk - the tag allow the rapid inventori of bulk item. thei ar also in us as a passcard for the m6 toll in the midland, in the uk. mr vetham said the major of peopl survei (52%) believ that rfid tag could be read from a distanc. he said that wa a misconcept base on a lack of awar of the technolog. at least onc consum group - consum against supermarket privaci invas and number (caspian) - ha claim that rfid chip could be us to secretli identifi peopl and the thing thei ar carri or wear. all kind of person belong, includ cloth, could constantli broadcast messag about their whereabout and their owner, it warn.
