creator of first appl mac di

jef raskin, head of the team behind the first macintosh comput, ha di.

mr raskin wa on of the first employe at appl and made mani of the design decis that made the mac so distinct when it wa first releas. he led the team that decid to us a graphic interfac and mous that let peopl navig around the comput by point and click. the 1984 releas of the mac reflect mr raskin's belief that good design should make comput easi to us.

mr raskin join appl in 1978 as employe number 31, initi to lead the compani's public depart. howev, in 1979 he wa put in charg of a small team to design a comput that live up to hi idea of a machin that wa cheap, aim at consum rather than comput profession and wa veri easi to us.

the result wa the 1984 macintosh that did awai with the then common text-base interfac in favour of on base around graphic that resembl a virtual desktop and us folder and document. user navig around the machin us a mous and by point, click and drag. although now in common us in almost all comput, these method were pioneer when first us in the macintosh. the gui wa develop by xerox parc, and us in it star machin. but the accept of the interfac did not truli begin until the concept wa develop for us by appl in it pioneer lisa comput. "hi role on the macintosh wa the initi of the project, so it wouldn't be here if it weren't for him," said andi hertzfeld, an earli macintosh team member. although mr raskin drove the team that creat the macintosh he did not stai at appl to see it releas. in 1981 he wa remov from the project follow a disput with appl's mercuri boss steve job. in 1982, mr raskin left appl entir. the macintosh wa reputedli name after mr raskin's favourit appl, though the name wa chang slightli follow a trademark disput with anoth compani. after leav appl, mr raskin found anoth compani call inform applianc and continu to work on better wai to interfac with comput. he wa also an accomplish musician, plai three instrument and conduct san francisco's chamber opera societi. mr raskin wa diagnos in decemb 2004 with pancreat cancer and di on 26 februari at hi home in california.
