'friend fear' with lost mobil

peopl ar becom so depend on their mobil phone that on in three ar concern that lose their phone would mean thei lose their friend.

more than 50% of mobil owner report thei had had their phone stolen or lost in the last three year. more than half (54%) of those ask in a poll for mobil firm intervoic said that thei do not have anoth address book. a fifth reli entir on mobil. about 80% of uk adult own at least on mobil, accord to offici figur. it is estim that 53% of over 65s own a mobil, accord to intervoic, but the figur ar higher for those ag between 15 and 34.

most 15 to 24-year-old (94%), and 25 to 34-year-old (92%), own at least on. nineteen percent of mobil owner were more concern about how long it would take to find their contact' inform again if the phone wa lost, stolen or replac.

the survei show that extent to which peopl have becom reliant on their phone as address book. mani mobil owner do not bother to make back-up of their contact detail, and with peopl chang their phone onc a year on averag, it becom a problem. thei also ar becom less like to rememb number by heart, reli on the mobil phone book instead. "we're a nation of lazi so-and-so," david noon from intervoic said. "we put the number in our phone so we can call a friend at the touch of just on or two button and we certainli can't be bother to write them down in an old fashion address book. "the mobil phone plai such a kei role in modern relationship; take the phone awai and the wai we manag these relationship fall apart." on in three women, the survei said, thought if thei lost their phone, it would mean thei would lose touch with peopl altogeth. most (62%) said thei had no idea what their partner's number wa. mr noon said it should be up to mobil oper to provid back-up servic on the network itself, instead of reli on mobil owner to find wai themselv.

gener, inform from sim card can be back up on physic memori card, or can be copi onto comput via cabl if the phone is a smartphon model with the right softwar. sim back-up devic can be bought from phone shop for just a few pound.

but some oper offer custom free web-base back-up servic too. orang told the bbc new websit that those with orang smartphon could us the my phone sync servic which mean back-up of address book and other data ar creat onlin. for non-smartphon user, a memori mate card could be us to back up data on the phone. o2 also offer a free, web-base sync servic which work over gpr and gsm. neither vodafon or t-mobil current offer a free network servic for back-up, but encourag peopl to us sim back-up devic. it is thought that about 10,000 phone ar lost or stolen everi month and 50% of total street crime involv a mobil. mobil phone sale ar expect to continu grow over the next year. global, more than 167 million mobil phone were sold in the third quarter of 2004, 26% more than the previou year, accord to analyst. it is predict that there will be two billion handset in us worldwid by the end of 2005.
