game enter the classroom

video game could soon be transplant from their natur habitat to the more academ atmospher of the classroom.

with violent titl continu to top the chart, game and learn have not alwai sat well togeth but the tide could be begin to turn. recent research by the london institut of educ conclud that game have a valid place in the classroom. "game teach life skill such as decis make, problem solv," said martin owen, at futurelab. mr owen said game could also help children make quick assess of situat and learn by trial and error.

futurelab is a non-profit organis look at wai of us technolog for innov learn. most game firm ar too busi turn a profit in the lucr commerci market to consid develop game for us in school but liverpool-base game firm later vision saw a gap in the market. "learn game were somewhat old-fashion and we didn't see anyon els do what we want to do," said dr carl gavin, manag director of later vision. the compani set out to write someth that had all the look and feel of a commerci game but with an educ and learn element. the result is race academi, a massiv multiplay car race game, which requir not onli a thirst for speed but a work knowledg of physic and engin as well.

it is be us by futurelab to test the viabil of us game in the classroom. "we ar keen to find out whether alongsid learn a game, we can also learn someth that the rest of the world can understand as be educ," said mr owen. player will have to understand how a car work in order to win race and the knowledg of physic and engin that thei gather along the wai will be done in a wai that no text book can teach. the game requir user to build and maintain their vehicl and to monitor and analys perform us data from a varieti of output, befor and after race. teamwork is essenti and a chat area allow student to exchang inform and data, work collabor and review their own perform. thi fusion of chatroom and game is of special interest to futurelab as it is through talk to other that much of the learn can be achiev, think mr owen.

the game ha been triall in two secondari school in bristol and feedback from student ha been posit. "pupil us the statist to work out the best wai to build their car and the onlin messag board to share idea and support each other," said ben williamson, a research at futurelab charg with test the game in real school. dr gavin think the game satisfi both teacher' need for learn outcom and the children's desir to rise to a challeng. "game in the classroom need to support the teacher. it is not about give children free rein to plai game but recognis that game attract attent and offer a challeng," he said. professor angela macfarlan, base at bristol univers, ha spent sever year research how game can be incorpor into classroom.

us of game in school ha been patchi she found, with sim citi prove the most popular. tradition school have eschew mainstream game in favour of us so-call edu-tainment softwar in a belief that such packag help to make learn fun, she found in her research. "it is perhap in a compromis between edutain and mainstream game that the greatest potenti for classroom useabl game li," she wrote in a paper entitl game and learn. 'lite' version of exist game could be the wai forward and would overcom on of the biggest hurdl - persuad develop to write for the educ market. thi would appeal to develop becaus of the low cost involv in adapt them as well as offer a new opportun for market. alreadi there ar game on the market, such as civilis and ag of empir, that have educ element said mr owen. "even in grand theft auto it is not just the violenc that engag peopl," he said. it could be some time until that particular game make it into the classroom though.
