gadget growth fuel eco concern

technolog firm and gadget lover ar be urg to think more about the environ when bui and dispos of the latest hi-tech product.

at the consum electron show in la vega earlier thi month, sever hi-tech firm were recognis for their strategi to help the environ. ebai also announc the rethink project bring togeth intel, appl, and ibm among other to promot recycl. the us consum electron market is set to grow by over 11% in 2005. but more awar is need about how and where old gadget can be recycl as well as how to be more energi effici, said the us environment protect agenc (epa). of particular grow concern is how much energi it take to recharg portabl devic, on of the fastest grow market in technolog. the consum electron associ (cea) ha predict that shipment of consum technolog in 2005 will reach more than $125.73 billion (nearli £68 billion).

ebai's initi pull togeth major technolog firm, environ group, govern agenc and ebai user to give inform about what to do with old comput and where to send them. the onlin auction hous think that it alreadi-establish commun of loyal user could be influenti. "we realli becam awar of the e-wast issu and we saw that our 125 million user can be a power forc for good," ebai's david stern told the bbc new websit.

"we saw the opportun to meet the addit demand we have on the site for us comput and saw the opportun too to good some good for the environ." but it is not just comput that caus a problem for the environ. teenag get a new mobil everi 11 month, adult everi 18 month and a 15 million handset ar replac in total each year. yet, onli 15% ar actual recycl. thi year, a predict two billion peopl worldwid will own a mobil, accord to a deloitt report. scheme in the us, like ripmobil, could help in target younger gener with recycl messag. the initi, which wa also launch at ce, reward 10 to 28-year-old for return unus phone. "thi system allow for the transform of a drawer full of unus mobil phone into anyth from music to cloth to electron or game," said seth hein from ripmobil.

on group of student collect 1,000 mobil for recycl in just three month. mr hein told the bbc new websit that what wa import wa to rais awar amongst the young so that recycl becom "learn behaviour". europ is undoubtedli more advanc than the us in term of recycl awar and robust "end of life" programm, although there is a tide chang happen in the rest of the world too. intel showcas some it motherboard and chip at ce which ar entir lead free.

"there is more and more awar on the consum side, but the whole industri is move toward be lead free," intel's allen wilson told the bbc new websit. "there is still low-level awar right now, but it is on the rise - the highest level of awar is in europ." a european union (eu) direct, weee (wast electron and electr equip), come into effect in august. it put the respons on electr manufactur to recycl item that ar return to them. but develop ar also be made to design better technolog which ar more energi effici and which do not contain harm substanc. element like chromium, lead, and cadmium - common in consum electron good - will be prohibit in all product in the eu by 2006.

but it is not just about recycl either. the predict huge growth in the gadget market mean the amount of energi us to power them up is on the rise too. the biggest culprit, accord to the epa, is the innocu power adaptor, nicknam "energi vampir". thei provid vital juic for billion of mobil phone, pda (person digit assist), digit camera, camcord, and digit music player.

although there is a focu on develop effici and improv circuit in the devic themselv, the technolog insid recharg ar still outdat and so eat up more energi than is need to power a gadget. on 1 januari, new effici standard for extern power suppli came into effect as part of the european commiss code of conduct. but at ce, the epa also unveil new guidelin for it latest energi star initi which target extern power adapt. these map out the framework for develop better adaptor that can be label with an energi star logo, mean thei ar about 35% more effici. the initi is a global effort and more manufactur' adaptor ar be brought on board. most ar made in china. about two billion ar ship global everi year, and about three billion ar in us in the us alon. the epa is alreadi work with sever compani which make more than 22% of power suppli on the market. "we ar increasingli find compani that not onli want to provid neat, hi-tech devic, but also bundl with it a hi-tech, effici power suppli," the epa's andrew fanara said. initi like thi ar critic; if power adaptor continu to be made and us as thei ar now, consum electron and other small applianc will be respons for more than 40% of electr us in us home, said the epa.
