'evil twin' fear for wireless net

peopl us wireless high-speed net (wi-fi) ar be warn about fake hotspot, or access point.

the latest threat, nicknam evil twin, pose as real hotspot but ar actual unauthoris base station, sai cranfield univers expert. onc log onto an evil twin, sensit data can be intercept. wi-fi is becom popular as more devic come with wireless capabl. london lead the global wi-fi hotspot leagu, with more than 1,000. the number of hotspot is expect to reach 200,000 by 2008, accord to analyst. "user need to be wari of us their wi-fi enabl laptop or other portabl devic in order to conduct financi transact or anyth that is of a sensit or person natur," said professor brian collin, head of inform system at cranfield univers.

"user can also protect themselv by ensur that their wi-fi devic ha it secur measur activ," he ad. bt openzon, which oper a vast proport of public hotspot in the uk, told the bbc new websit that it made everi effort to make it wi-fi secur. "natur, peopl mai have secur concern," said chri clark, chief execut for bt's wireless broadband.

"but wi-fi network ar no more or less vulner than ani other mean of access the internet, like broadband or dial-up." he said bt openzon, as well as other, have sophist encrypt from the start of the login process to the servic at a hotspot. "thi mean that user' person inform and data, logon usernam and password ar protect and secur," said mr clark.

in the vast major of case, base station straight out of the box from the manufactur ar automat set up with the least secur mode possibl, said dr nobl. cybercrimin who try to glean person inform us the scam, jam connect to a legitim base station by send a stronger signal near to the wireless client. anyon with the right gear can find a real hotspot and substitut it with an evil twin. "cybercrimin don't have to be that clever to carri out such an attack," said dr phil nobl, a wireless net and cybercrim expert at cranfield. "becaus wireless network ar base on radio signal thei can be easili detect by unauthoris user tune into the same frequenc."

although wi-fi is increas in popular as more peopl want to us high-speed net on the move, there have been fear over how secur it is. some compani have been reluct to us them in larg number becaus of fear about secur. a wireless network that is not protect can provid a backdoor into a compani's comput system. public wi-fi hotspot offer by compani like bt openzon and the cloud, ar access after user sign up and pai for us. but mani home and compani wi-fi network ar left unprotect and can be "snif out" and hi-jack by anyon with the correct equip. "bt advis that custom should chang all default set, make sure that their secur set on all equip ar configur correctli," said mr clark. "we also advoc the us of person firewal to ensur that onli authoris user can have access and that data cannot be intercept." dr nobl is due to speak about wireless cybercrim at the scienc museum's dana centr in london on thursdai.
