china 'to overtak us net us'

the chines net-us popul look set to exce that of the us in less than three year, sai a report.

china's net user number 100m but thi repres less than 8% of the countri's 1.3 billion peopl. market analyst panlog predict that net user in china will exce the 137 million us user of the net by 2008. the report sai that the countri's cultur will mean that chines peopl will us the net for veri differ end than in mani other nation.

alreadi net us in china ha a veri differ charact than in mani western nation, said william makow, chief execut of panlog. in mani western nation desktop comput that can access the net ar hard to escap at work. by contrast in china workplac machin ar rel rare. thi, combin with the rel high cost of pc in china and the time it take to get phone line instal, help to explain the huge number of net cafe in china. onli 36% of chines home have telephon accord to report. "net usag tend to happen in the even," said mr makow, "thei get access onli when thei go home and go off to the internet caf&#233;." "it fundament differ usag to what we have here," he said.

net us in china wa still veri much an urban phenomenon with most user live on the countri's eastern seaboard or in it three biggest citi. the net is kei to help chines peopl keep in touch with friend, said mr makow. mani peopl us it in prefer to the phone or arrang to meet up with friend at net cafe. what peopl can do on the net is also limit by aspect of chines life. for instanc, said mr makow, credit card ar rare in china partli becaus of fear peopl have about get in to debt. "the most popular wai to pai is cash-on-deliveri," he said, "and that's quit a brake to the develop of e-commerc." the arriv of foreign bank in china, due in 2006, could mean greater us of credit card but for the moment thei ar rare, said mr makow. but if chines peopl ar not spend cash onlin thei ar interest in the new thei can get via the net and the view it give them on western wai of live. "a larg part of the attract of the internet is that it goe below the radar," he said. "gener it's more difficult for the govern to be abl to control it." "it real valu is as an open window onto what's happen elsewher in the world," he said. govern restrict on how much advertis can appear on televis mean that the net is a sourc of mani commerci messag chines peopl would not see anywher els. familiar with the net also ha a certain social cachet. "it's a sign of them have made it that thei can us the internet and navig around it," said mr makow.
