rich pick for hi-tech thiev

virus, trojan and other malici program sent on to the net to catch you out ar undergo a subtl chang.

the shift is happen as tech savvi crimin turn to technolog to help them con peopl out of cash, steal valuabl data or take over home pc. virus written to make headlin by infect million ar get rarer. instead program ar now craft for directli crimin end and firm ar tighten up network with defenc to combat the new wave of malici code.

the grow crimin us of malwar ha meant the end of the neat categoris of differ sort of virus and malici program. befor now it ha been broadli possibl to name and categoris virus by the method thei us to spread and how thei infect machin. but mani of the virus written by crimin roll lot of technic trick togeth into on nasti packag.

"you cannot put them in to the neat littl box that you us to," said pete simpson, head of the threat laboratori at secur firm clearswift. now virus ar just as like to spread by themselv like worm, or to exploit loophol in browser or hide in e-mail messag attach. "it's about outright crimin now," said mr simpson, explain why thi chang ha come about. he said mani of the crimin program came from eastern europ where cash-rich organis gang can find a readi suppli of technic expert that will crank out code to order. former viru writer marek strihavka, aka benni from the 29a viru write group, recent quit the malwar scene partli becaus it wa be taken over by spywar writer, phish gang, and spammer who ar more interest in monei rather than the technolog. no longer do viru writer produc program to show off their technic prowess to rival in the underground world of malwar author. not least, said paul king, princip secur consult at cisco, becaus the defenc against such attack ar so common. "in mani wai the least like wai to do it is e-mail becaus most of us have got anti-viru and firewal now," he said. few of the malici program written by hi-tech thiev ar cleverli written, mani ar much more pragmat and us tri and test techniqu to infect machin or to trick user into instal a program or hand over import data. "if you think of crimin thei do not do clever," said mr king, "thei just do what work."

as the tactic us by malici program chang, said mr king, so mani firm were chang the wai thei defend themselv. now mani scan machin that connect to the corpor network to ensur thei have not been compromis while off the core network.

mani will not let a machin connect and a worker get on with their job befor the latest patch and set have been upload. as well as us differ tactic, crimin also us technolog for reason that ar much more transpar. "the main motiv now is monei," said gari stowel, spokesman for st bernard softwar. mr stowel said organis crime gang were turn to comput crime becaus the risk of be caught were low and the rate of return were veri high. with almost ani phish or spywar attack, crimin ar guarante to catch some peopl out and have the contact to exploit what thei recov. so-call spywar wa prove veri popular with crimin becaus it allow them to take over machin for their own end, to steal kei data from user or to hijack web brows session to point peopl at particular site. in some case spywar wa be written that search for rival malici program on pc it infect and then try to eras them so it ha sole ownership of that machin.
