softwar watch while you work

softwar that can not onli monitor everi keystrok and action perform at a pc but also be us as legal bind evid of wrong-do ha been unveil.

worri about cyber-crime and sabotag have prompt mani employ to consid monitor employe. the develop behind the system claim it is a break-through in the wai data is monitor and store. but privaci advoc ar concern by the invas natur of such softwar.

the system is a joint ventur between secur firm 3ami and storag specialist bridgehead softwar. thei have join forc to creat a system which can monitor comput activ, store it and retriev disput file within minut. more and more firm ar find themselv in deep water as a result of data misus. sabotag and data theft ar most commonli commit from within an organis accord to the nation hi-tech crime unit (nhtcu) a survei conduct on it behalf by nop found evid that more than 80% of medium and larg compani have been victim of some form of cyber-crime. bridgehead softwar ha come up with techniqu to prove, to a legal standard, that ani store file on a pc ha not been tamper with. iron the impetu for develop the system came as a result of the freedom of inform act, which requir compani to store all data for a certain amount of time.

the storag system ha been incorpor into an applic develop by secur firm 3ami which allow everi action on a comput to be log. potenti it could help employ to follow the trail of stolen file and pinpoint whether thei had been email to a third parti, copi, print, delet or save to cd, floppi disk, memori stick or flash card. other activ the system can monitor includ the download of pornographi, the us of racist or bulli languag or the copi of applic for person us. increasingli organis that handl sensit data, such as govern, ar us biometr log-in such as fingerprint to provid conclus proof of who wa us a particular machin at ani given time. privaci advoc ar concern that monitor at work is not onli damag to employe's privaci but also to the relationship between employ and their staff. "that is not the case," said tim ellsmor, manag director of 3ami. "it is not about replac dialogu but there ar issu that you can talk through but you still need proof," he said. "peopl need to recognis that you ar us a pc as a repres of a compani and that employ have a legal requir to store data," he ad.
