game firm 'face tough futur'

uk video game firm face a test time as thei prepar for the next round of game consol, the industri warn.

fred hasson, head of tiga, which repres independ develop, said that more uk firm would go under due to greater risk in make new titl. three lead uk video game compani also predict that more firm would close as thei struggl to adapt. microsoft, soni and nintendo ar expect to releas new consol in the next 18 month. microsoft ha said repeatedli that it want to be first to the market and some analyst predict that xbox 2 will be releas in the us befor the end of 2005.

the new machin will all have much greater process and graphic power which will have a huge impact on develop of next gener game. mr hasson said: "in the last four year we have probabl lost a third of independ develop." he said there were about 150 independ develop left in the industri and more were like to close. "onc the cull ha finish it like to present those still stand with great opportun," he said.

mr hasson said the industri wa predict that develop cost and team were like to need to doubl in order to cope with the demand of the new machin. that figur wa endors by three independ compani contact by the bbc new websit - codemast, climax and rebellion.

"as consol get more power, the content get more detail and that mean more cost," said gari dunn, develop director at codemast, which develop game in hous and also publish titl. jason kingslei, chief execut of rebellion, said the transit from the current gener of consol to the new machin wa difficult becaus "the product qualiti expect by consum will be that much bigger". he ad: "we have been through five technolog transit and surviv so far. "each on ha involv the death of some peopl. all compani said thei were invest in new tool - call middlewar - in order to try and avoid staff number spiral out of control.

simon gardner, presid of climax's action studio, said: "we ar invest in superior tool and editor. we ar invest upfront to gener thi content without the need for huge team. "it's vital we avoid huge team." he said climax wa alreadi direct about 20% of it resourc to prepar for next gener titl. mr dunn warn that compani could face a short suppli of program, develop and artist talent. "if compani ar hire bigger and bigger team, at some point the talent is go to run out." mr hasson said game develop were begin to realis that thei had to be more "busi-like". "there ar still some develop who were involv in game from the bedroom code dai. "some of them ar still make game for peer group approv - that ha to stop."
