nintendo handheld given euro date

nintendo's new handheld consol, the ds, will launch in europ on 11 march, the compani ha announc.

the portabl game machin, which featur touch-screen control, will retail for £99 in the uk (149 euro). nintendo said 15 game would be avail in the uk at launch, with price rang from £19 to £29. more than 2.8 million ds consol have been sold sinc it first appear in the us and japan at the end of 2004. rival soni ha said it will launch it first handheld consol, the psp, in the us and europ befor the end of march. the psp is expect to compet for a larg part of the same handheld market, despit soni's assert that the machin ar aim at differ consum.

the 15 game avail on the european launch date will includ nintendo's super mario 64 ds, as well as titl from third-parti develop such as ubisoft's rayman ds.

more than 120 game ar in develop for the new consol, nintendo ha said. the ds is backward compat with the game boi advanc, allow the earlier machin's back catalogu of 700 game to be plai. addition, a short-rang wireless link for multiplay game is built in to the ds, with a "download plai" option which allow a group to plai against each other, even if just on person own a copi. other featur includ a short-rang messag applic call pictochat, and a built-in microphon which is us in sega's launch titl project rub. nintendo ha also announc a media adapt, which will allow the consol to plai music and video on the move.

the launch price of £99 (149 euro) compar favour with the us price of $149, accord to john houlihan, editor of the computerandvideogam.com magazin. "it's a veri, veri competit price point. there ar some innov featur, and nintendo ha creat quit a buzz," he sai. "howev, the line-up of game could have been stronger. everyon want to see the eight-player mario kart ds, for exampl."

mr houlihan believ that there is like to be an audienc for both the nintendo ds and soni's new psp, with the former aim larg at a younger audienc and the latter expect to be market as a multimedia devic. "the psp is a sexi bit of kit, but soni's attitud to the psp ha been veri underst in europ, so far," mr houlihan said. the worldwid handheld softwar market had an estim worth of $2.6bn at the end of 2004, accord to industri analyst screen digest.

in the past, game consol and handheld have gener launch much later in europ than in other part of the world. howev nintendo presid satoru iwata said the compani wa "pleas to have offer such a short period of time between the us and european launch". "europ is an extrem import market for nintendo," mr iwata ad. nintendo rais it sale target for the ds consol last decemb after sell a million in the us and japan in just a few week.
