smart search let art fan brows

if you don't know art but know what you like, new search technolog could prove a us gatewai to paint.

artgarden, develop by bt's research unit, is be test by the tate as a new wai of brows it onlin collect of paint. rather than search by the name of an artist or paint, user ar shown a select of pictur. click on their favourit will chang the galleri in front of them to a select of similar work.

the technolog us a system dub smart serendip, which is a combin of artifici intellig and random select. it 'choos' a select of pictur, by score paint base on a select of keyword associ with them. so, for instanc a whistler paint of a bridg mai have the obviou keyword such as bridg and whistler associ to it but will also widen the search net with term such as aesthet movement, 19th centuri and water. a varieti of paint will then be shown to the user, base partli on the keyword and partli on luck. "it is much more akin to wander through the galleri," said jemima relli, head of the tate's digit programm. for richard tateson, who work on the artgarden project, the need for a new wai to search grew out of person frustrat. "i went to an onlin cloth store to find someth to bui my wife for christma but i didn't have a clue what i want," he said. the text-base search wa restrict to look either by type of garment or design, neither of which he found help. he end up do hi present shop on the high street instead.

he think the domin of text-base search is not necessarili appeal to the major of onlin shopper. similarli, with art, brows is often more import than find a particular object. "you don't arriv at tate britain and tell peopl what you want to see. on of the skill of show off the collect is to introduc peopl to thing thei wouldn't have ask for," he said. the tate is commit to make it art more access and technolog such as artgarden can help with that, said ms relli. she hope the technolog can be incorpor on to the websit in the near futur. bt research is look at extend the technolog to other search, such as for music and film.
