warn over window word file

write a microsoft word document can be a danger busi, accord to document secur firm workshar.

up to 75% of all busi document contain sensit inform most firm would not want expos, a survei by the firm reveal. to make matter wors 90% of those compani question had no idea that confidenti inform wa leak. the report warn firm to do a better job of polic document as corpor complianc becom more bind.

sensit inform inadvert leak in document includ confidenti contractu term, competit inform that rival would be keen to see and special deal for kei custom, said andrew pearson, european boss of workshar which commiss the research. "the effici the internet ha brought in such as instant access to inform have also creat secur and control issu too," he said. the problem is particularli acut with document prepar us microsoft word becaus of the wai it maintain hidden record about edit chang. as document get pass around, work on and amend by differ staff member the sensit inform find it wai into document. poor control over the edit and amend process can mean that inform that should be expung surviv final edit. microsoft, howev, doe provid an add-on tool for window pc that fix the problem. "the remov hidden data add-in is a tool that you can us to remov person or hidden data that might not be immedi appar when you view the document in your microsoft offic applic," sai the instruct on microsoft's websit. microsoft recommend that the tool is us befor peopl publish ani word document. a tool for appl machin run word is not avail. workshar survei firm around the world and found that, on averag, 31% of document contain legal sensit inform but in mani firm up to three-quarter fell in to the high risk categori. often, said mr pearson, thi sensit inform wa invis becaus it got delet and chang as differ draft were prepar.

howev, the wai that window work mean that earlier version can be recal and reconstruct by those keen to see how a document ha evolv. few firm have ani knowledg of the exist of thi so-call metadata about the chang that a document ha gone through or that it can be reconstruct. the discoveri of thi hidden inform could prove embarrass for compani if, for instanc, those tender for contract found out about the chang to term of a deal be negoti. the research reveal that a document's metadata could be substanti as, on averag, onli 40% of contributor' chang to a document make it to the final draft. problem with document could mean troubl for firm as regulatori bodi step up scrutini and complianc law start to bite, said mr pearson.
