net regul 'still possibl'

the blur of boundari between tv and the internet rais question of regul, watchdog ofcom ha said.

content on tv and the internet is set to move closer thi year as tv-qualiti video onlin becom a norm. at a debat in westminst, the net industri consid the option. lord curri, chairman of super-regul ofcom, told the panel that protect audienc would alwai have to be a primari concern for the watchdog. despit have no remit for the regul of net content, disquiet ha increas among internet servic provid as speech made by ofcom in recent month hint that regul might be an option. at the debat, organis by the internet servic provid' associ (ispa), lord curri did not rule out the possibl of regul.

"the challeng will aris when boundari between tv and the internet truli blur and then there is a balanc to be struck between protect consum and allow them to assess the risk themselv," he said. adopt the rule that current exist to regul tv content or self-regul, which is current the practic of the net industri, will be up for discuss.

some studi suggest that as mani as eight million household in the uk could have adopt broadband by the end of 2005, and the technolog open the door to tv content deliv over the net. more and more internet servic provid and media compani ar stream video content on the web. bt ha alreadi set up an entertain divis to creat and distribut content that could come from sourc such as bskyb, itv and the bbc. head of the divis, andrew burk, spoke about the possibl of creat content for all platform. "how risqu can i be in thi new ag? with celebr chef serv up more explet than hot dinner, sure i can push it to the limit," he said.

in fact, he said, if content ha been request by consum and thei have gone to length to download it, then mayb it should be entir regul free. internet servic provid have long claim no respons for the content thei carri on their server sinc the law commiss dub them "mere conduit" back in 2002. thi defenc doe not appli if thei have actual knowledg of illeg content and have fail to remov it. the level of respons thei have ha been test in sever high-profil legal case. richard ayer, portal director at tiscali, said there wa littl point try to regul the internet becaus it would be imposs. huge chang ar afoot in 2005, he predict, as compani such as the bbc offer tv content over the net. the bbc's plan interact media player which will give surfer the chanc to download programm such as eastend and top gear will make net tv mainstream and rais a whole new set of question, he said.

on of these will be about the vast sum of monei involv in maintain the network to suppli such a huge quantiti of data and could herald a new digit licenc fee, said mr ayer. as inappropri net content, most obvious pornographi view by children, continu to domin the headlin, internet regul remain a polit issu said mp richard allan, liber democrat spokesman on it. mr allan think that the answer could lie somewher between the cri of "imposs to regul" and "just appli offlin law onlin". in fact, instead of see regul brought onlin, the futur could bring an end to regul as we know it for all tv content. after lord curri depart, the panel agre that thi could be a realiti and that for the internet peopl power is like to reign. "if content is on-demand, consum have pull it up rather than had push to them, then it is the consum' choic to watch it. there is no watersh on the net," said mr burk.
