voter flock to blog award site

vote is under wai for the annual bloggi which recognis the best web blog - onlin space where peopl publish their thought - of the year.

nomin were announc on sundai, but traffic to the offici site wa so heavi that the websit wa temporarili close becaus of too mani visitor. weblog have been nomin in 30 categori, from the top region blog, to the best-kept-secret blog. blog had a huge year, with a top us dictionari name "blog" word of 2004. technorati, a blog search engin, track about six million blog and sai that more than 12,000 ar ad daili. a blog is creat everi 5.8 second, accord to us research think-tank pew internet and american life, but less than 40% of the total ar updat at least onc everi two month.

nikolai nolan, who ha run the bloggi for the past five year, told the bbc new websit he wa not too surpris by the amount of voter who crowd the site. "the award alwai get a lot of traffic; thi wa just my first year on a server with a bandwidth limit, so i had to guess how much i'd need," he said. there were mani new finalist thi year, he ad, and a few that had won bloggi befor. sever entri reflect specif new event. "there ar four nomin for the south-east asia earthquak and tsunami blog, which is a pretti time on for 2005," said mr nolan.

the big bloggi battl will be for the ultim prize of blog of the year. the nomin blog ar wide-rang cover what is in the new to quirki site of interest. fight it out for the covet award ar gawker, thi fish need a bicycl, wonkett, bo bo, and gothamist. in a sign that blog ar plai an increasingli kei part in spread new and current affair, the south-east asia earthquak and tsunami blog is also nomin in the best overal categori. greenfairydotcom, londonist, hicksdesign, plasticbag and london underground tube blog ar the nomine in the best british or irish weblog.

includ in the other categori is best "meme". thi is for the top "replic idea that spread about weblog". nomin includ flickr, a web photo album which let peopl upload, tag, share and publish their imag to blog. podcast ha also made an appear in the categori. it is an increasingli popular idea that make us of rss (realli simpl syndic) and audio technolog to let peopl easili make their own radio show, and distribut them automat onto portabl devic.

mani ar done by those who alreadi have text-base blog, so thei ar almost like audio blog. three new categori have been ad to the list thi year, includ best food, best entertain, and best write of a weblog. on of the categori that wa scrap though wa best music blog. the winner of the fifth annual bloggi ar chosen by the public. public vote close on 3 februari and the winner will be announc sometim between 13 and 15 march.
