web radio take spanish rap global

spin the radio dial in the us and you ar like to find plenti of spanish-languag music. but what you will not find is much spanish-languag hip-hop.

hip-hop and rap ar actual quit popular in the spanish-speak world, but local artist ar have troubl market their work abroad. but now, a us compani is bring rap and hip-hop en espanol to comput user everywher. lo caballero de plan g ar on of mexico's hottest hip-hop act. thei have a devot fan base in their nativ monterrei. but most mexican hip-hop fan, not to mention fan in most of the spanish-speak world, rare get a chanc to hear the group's track on the radio.

"you can't realli just go on the radio and listen to hip-hop in spanish... it's just not access," sai manuel millan, a nativ of san diego, california. "it's realli hard for the spanish hip-hop scene to get into mainstream radio. you usual have a veri commercialis sound and the group ar not realli known around the countri or around the world." millan and two friend set out to chang that - thei want to make group like lo caballero de plan g access to fan global.

mainstream radio station were not go to plai thi kind of music, and start their own broadcast station wa econom imposs. so, millan and hi friend launch a websit call latinohiphopradio.com. the name sai it all: it is web-base radio, devot to the hottest spanish languag rap and hip-hop track. the site, which is in both in english and spanish, is meant to be easi to navig. all the user ha to do is download a media player. there ar no dj. it is just music stream over the net for free. suddenli, with the help of the websit, lo caballero de plan g ar produc "export qualiti" rap.

the web might be just the right medium for spanish languag hip-hop right now. the genr is in what millan call it "infant stage". but the product valu ar improv, and artist such as argentina's mustafa yoda ar push to make it better and better. mustafa yoda is current on of the hottest track on latinohiphopradio.com. "he's consid the eminem of argentina, and the latin american hip-hop scene," millan sai. "he realli hasn't had that much exposur as far as anywher in the world, but he's definit the on to look out for as far as becom the next big thing in the spanish-speak world." current, the chilean group makisa is also in latinohiphopradio.com's top 10, as is cuban artist papo record. "everi countri's got it's own cultur differ and thei try to put those into their own song," millan sai. latinohiphopradio.com ha been up and run for a coupl of month now. the site ha listen from across the spanish speak world. right now, mexico lead the wai, account for about 50% of listen. but web surfer in spain ar log in as well - about 25% of the web station's traffic come from there. that is not surpris as mani consid spain to be the leader in spanish-languag rap and hip-hop. millan sai that spain is actual just behind the unit state and franc in term of overal rap and hip-hop product. that might be chang, though, as more and more latin american artist ar find audienc.

but on spaniard is still firmli in latinohiphopradio.com's top 10. hi name is tote king and manuel millan sai that he is the hip-hop leader in spain. on hi track uno contra veint emce, or on against 20 emce, tote king show he is well awar of that fact. "it's basic him brag that he's on of the best emce in spain right now," millan sai. "and it's pretti much true. he ha the tightest product, and hi rap flow is impecc, it's amaz." latinohiphopradio.com is hope to expand in the come year. millan sai thei want to includ more music and more new from the world of spanish languag hip-hop and rap.

clark boyd is technolog correspond for the world, a bbc world servic and wgbh-boston co-product.
