movi bodi target children's pc

the bodi that repres the us movi industri ha releas it latest tool in it campaign to clamp down on movi file-share, aim at parent.

the movi associ for america's (mpaa) free parent file scan softwar let parent check their children's comput for peer-to-peer program. it will also list all movi and music file thei have on their hard drive. parent then have the choic to remov program and file. the mpaa said file found would not be pass on to it. "our ultim goal is to help consum locat the resourc and inform thei need to make appropri decis about us and trade illeg file," said dan glickman, mpaa chief. "mani parent ar concern about what their children have download and where thei've download it from."

but some comput user who had test the latest softwar report on some technolog site that the program had identifi window default wav file as copyright materi and want to delet them. movi piraci cost the industri £3.7bn ($7bn) in 2003, accord to analyst. the mpaa said in a statement that it would continu to provid easi access to similar tool in the come month to combat "the deleteri effect of peer-to-peer softwar, includ such common problem as virus, trojan hors and ident theft".

mr glickman said that the film industri wa embrac "digit ag technolog", like movielink and cinemanow, which ar legal movi site. "but legal servic such as these need a chanc to grow and thrive without have to compet against illegitim oper that depend on stolen properti to surviv," he ad. the industri bodi also said it had launch a second round of legal action against onlin movi-swapper across the us, but did not sai how mani were be su. it first set of lawsuit were file in novemb 2004. it also start a campaign against oper of bittorr, edonkei and directconnect peer-to-peer network. the first convict for peer-to-peer piraci were hand out in the us in januari. william trowbridg and michael chicoin plead guilti to charg that thei infring copyright by illeg share music, movi and softwar.
