norwai uphold 'napster' rule

a norwegian student who ran a websit which link to download mp3 file ha been order to pai compens by the countri's suprem court.

frank allan bruvik wa order to pai 100,000 kroner (£8,000) to the music industri in norwai. he wa a student when he set up hi napster.no site, which allow user to submit and receiv link to mp3 file. bruvik had earlier been clear on appeal after a lower court had found for the music industri. music industri boss in norwai said the rule would help build confid in the internet as a distribut medium.

frank allan bruvik set up the napster.no websit as part of a school project in 2001 while studi comput engin in the norwegian town of lillehamm. the websit wa not associ with the napster.com site in the usa, which had been oper sinc 1999 and wa alreadi face legal action.

bruvik's site wa onlin between august and novemb 2001, and while it did not host ani music, at it peak it wa provid link to more than 170 free file on other server. as well as provid link, the site allow those visit it to submit link that could later be access by other visitor. a legal complaint for copyright violat wa file by group includ norwai's perform right societi, tono, and the norwegian branch of soni music and univers music, who saw it as an import test of principl.

a norwegian court rule in 2003 that bruvik would have to pai 100,000 kroner to the music industri, but the countri's court of appeal clear him, sai that the copyright violat occur when other post the music. howev, the suprem court state that the music wa clearli publish in violat of copyright law it ad that the case wa decid base on the respons for abet an illeg act, and that bruvik's action were premedit. norwai's music industri said it wa satisfi with the rule, becaus show that music piraci would not be accept.

meanwhil, in the usa a further 717 lawsuit against peopl alleg to have trade copyright song were file thi week by the record industri associ of america. the suit, brought on behalf of the major record compani, cite the individu for illeg distribut music via unauthor peer-to-peer servic such as kazaa and edonkei. as with preced case, the fresh action wa made against so-call "john doe" defend, who ar identifi onli by the code given to their comput' internet connect.
