the futur in your pocket

if you ar a geek or gadget fan, the next 12 month look like thei ar go to be a lot of fun.

the relentless pace of develop in the hi-tech world and rampant competit in mani of it sector, particularli among mobil phone firm, all suggest that 2005 is go to be a veri good year. to begin with, 2005 will be the year that third-gener (3g) mobil phone becom inescap. the 3 network launch in 2003, vodafon launch it consum servic in novemb, orang follow in earli decemb and t-mobil and o2 ar due to launch in 2005. the main result of these launch will like be a slew of good deal for consum as oper try to poach new custom from rival and convinc exist user to trade up.

alreadi the extra capac in 3g network let 3 offer good deal on voic call at rate that will probabl have to be match by the other oper. but the shift in technolog and low cost of voic call mean that oper lose a signific chunk of their revenu. "show me an oper that believ their voic busi can sustain them, and i'll write their obituari" said niel ransom, chief technolog offic at alcatel.

instead oper ar like to push all other thing that 3g phone can do such as video messag and other multimedia capabl. alreadi camera phone look set to challeng digit camera and ar like to win more fan as multi-megapixel devic go on sale. but 3g will not have everyth it own wai. it will face competit from emerg technolog such as wimax. thi wireless technolog can boost data transmiss speed up to 75 megabit per second and work over distanc of up to 30 mile. kent is like to be the site of the uk's first wimax network which is due to go live in 2005 and it could be the wai that rural area get high-speed net access. analyst firm telecom view predict that wimax will steal a lot of market share from 3g and will be a clear winner. bob larribeau, princip analyst at telecom view, said the better return on invest offer by technolog such as wimax could dent the possibl return of 3g network. and the grow ubiqu of wi-fi must not be forgotten either. the technolog is pop up in more place than ever and it wider us is onli held back by the price differ across countri and supplier.

move to unit mobil and fix phone look set to get more emphasi in 2005 too.

for a start, bt look set to roll out it bluephon project dure the next 12 month. the servic revolv around a hybrid devic that us the mobil network when you ar out and about but switch back to the fix line when you ar at home. fix line phone will also start to get much more seriou competit from a technolog that ha the formid name of voic over ip (voip). voip rout call via the net instead of the fix line phone network. anyon with a broadband connect, which is now more than 50% of the uk's net us popul, can us voip and could slash their monthli phone bill if thei us it. telecommun regul ofcom ha declar 056 to be the area code for voip call and 2005 is like to see a lot more consum-focus voip call servic start up. home broadband servic will also start to increas in speed as dwindl number of new user sign forc the pace of competit. if 2004 ha been the year of the portabl music player, thei 2005 look like it will be the year of the portabl media player. motorola ha just announc a deal with appl to produc a phone that work with the itun servic and other hybrid gadget that sport a big memori and lot of other function will becom commonplac. the pace of advanc in storag media will continu mean that the cost per megabyt of memori will plummet. some of those devic will sport huge hard drive let you store more data than you ever want or knew you had. converg could mean that singl-function devic start to dwindl in number. instead everi gadget will be abl to do almost anyth and commun almost ani wai you want. the onli downsid is that consum will face a seri of tough choic as thei ar confront by a bewild arrai of gadget each with an enorm number of featur and vast data hold capac. but that is the kind of problem most gadget fan can live with.
