mobil game come of ag

the bbc new websit take a look at how game on mobil phone ar matur. a brief round-up follow but you can skip straight to the review by click on the link below.

if you think of snake when some mention "mobil game" then you could be in for a bit of a surpris. thi is becaus mobil game have come a long wai in a veri short time. even befor nokia's n-gage game phone launch in late 2003, mani mobil oper were realis that there wa an audienc look for someth to plai on their handset.

and given that mani more peopl own handset than own portabl game plai gadget such as the gameboi it could be a veri lucr market. that audienc includ commut want someth to fill their time on the wai home, game fan look for a bit of varieti and hard core gamer who like to plai everi moment thei can. life for all these type of player ha got immeasur better in the last year as the number of titl you can download to your phone ha snowbal. now site such as wireless game review list more than 200 differ titl for some uk network and the rang suit everi possibl tast. there ar port of pc and arcad classic such as space invad, lunar lander and bejewel. there ar also version of titl, such as colin mcrae ralli, that you typic find on pc and consol.

there ar shoot-em-up, adventur game, strategi titl and mani novel game onli found on handset. rare now doe an action movi launch without a mobil game tie-in. increasingli such launch ar all part of the promot campaign for a film, understand when you realis that a good game can rack up million of download. the return can be pretti good when you consid that some game cost £5. what ha also help game on mobil thrive is the fact that it is easier than ever to get hold of them thank to technolog known as wap push. by send a text messag to a game maker you can have the titl download to your handset. far better than have to navig through the menu of most mobil oper portal. the number of handset that can plai game ha grown huge too. almost half of all phone now have java onboard mean that thei can plai the increasingli sophist game that ar avail - even the on that us 3d graphic.

the minimum technolog specif that phone should adher to ar get more sophist which mean that game ar too. now doubl kei press ar possibl make familiar tactic such as move and strafe a real option. the process power on handset mean that physic on mobil game is get more convinc and the graphic ar improv too. some game maker ar also start to take advantag of the extra capabl in a mobil. mani titl, particularli race game, let you upload your best time to see how you compar to other. usual you can get hold of their best time and race against a "ghost" or "shadow" to see if you can beat them. a few game also let you take on peopl in real time via the network or, if you ar sit close to them, via bluetooth short-rang radio technolog. with so much go on it is hard to do justic to the sheer divers of what is happen. but these two featur should help point you in the direct of the game maker and give you an idea of where to look and how to get plai.

 too fast too furiou (digit bridg) 

as soon as i start plai thi i rememb why i never plai drive game - becaus i'm rubbish at them. no matter if i drive the car via joystick or keypad i just cannot get the hang of brake for corner or time a rush to pass other driver. the game reward replai becaus to advanc you have to complet everi section within a time limit. win give you cash for upgrad. graphic the roll road is a convinc enough evoc of speed as the palm tree and cactu whip by and the citi scroll past in the background. the car handl pretti well despit my useless but it wa not clear if the differ model of car were appreci differ on the track. the onli niggl wa that the interfac wa a bit confus especi when us a joystick rather than the keypad to plai.

 fatal forc (macrospac) 

a futurist shooter that let you either plai variou deathmatch mode against your phone or run through a seri of scenario that involv kill alien invad earth. graphic ar a bit cartoon-like but onli help to make clear what is go on and level ar well laid out and encourag you to leap about explor. both background music and sound effect work well. the scenario ar well script and you regularli get hint from the fatal forc command. weapon includ flamethrow, rocket launcher, grenad and at a coupl of point you even get chanc to us a mech for a short while. with the right power-up you can go into a matrix-style bullet time to cope with the onslaught of alien. the game let you plai via bluetooth if other ar in rang. onlin the game ha quit a follow with clan, player rank and even new download map.
