web help collect aid donat

the web is help aid agenc gather resourc to help cope with the aftermath of the tsunami disast.

mani peopl ar make donat via websit or go onlin to see how thei can get involv with aid effort. high-profil web portal such as googl, yahoo, ebai and amazon ar gather link that lead peopl to aid and relief organis. so mani were visit some aid-relat site that some webpag were struggl to cope with the traffic. an umbrella organis call the disast emerg committe (dec) ha been set up by a coalit of 12 chariti and ha been take mani donat via it special creat websit. it urg peopl to go onlin where possibl to help becaus donat could be process more quickli than cash donat in other wai, mean aid could be deliv as quickli as possibl. the site ha so far receiv almost £8 million, with more than 11,000 donat be made onlin everi hour.

telco bt step in to take over the secur payment on the dec site and provid extra logist support for phone and onlin appeal after it wa initi crippl with onlin donat. it ha also provid space in london's bt tower for on of the call centr deal with donat.

some of the web's biggest firm ar also help to channel help by modifi their homepag to includ link to aid agenc and organis collect resourc. on it famous spars homepag googl ha place a link that lead user to a list of site where donat can be made. among the 17 organis list ar oxfam, medecin san frontier (doctor without border) and network for good. mani of the site that googl list ar also take onlin donat. onlin retail amazon ha put a larg messag on it start page that let peopl donat monei directli to the american red cross that will be us with relief effort. auction site ebai is give a list of site that peopl can either donat directli to, divert a portion of their profit from anyth thei sell on ebai to the list organis or simpli bui item that direct cash to those in the list. yahoo is prove link direct to chariti for those that want to donat. the auction drop websit is ask peopl to donat old digit camera, comput and other gadget thei no longer want that can be auction to rais cash for the aid effort. sadli, the outpour of goodwil ha also encourag some conmen to try to cash in. anti-fraud organis ar warn about e-mail that ar start to circul which try to convinc peopl to send monei directli to them rather than make donat via aid agenc. those want to give cash were urg to us legitim websit of chariti and aid agenc.
