blog take on the mainstream

web log or blog ar everywher, with at least an estim five million on the web and that number is set to grow.

these onlin diari come in mani shape and style, rang from peopl will to share their view, pictur and link, to compani interest in anoth wai of reach their custom. but thi year the focu ha been on blog which cast a critic ey over new event, often write about issu ignor by the big media or offer an ey-wit account of event. most blog mai have onli a small readership, but commun expert sai thei have provid an avenu for peopl to have a sai in the world of polit. the most well-known exampl includ iraqi salam pax's account of the us-led war, former iranian vice-presid mohammad ali abtahi exclus insight into the islam republ's govern, and the high and low of the recent us elect campaign. there ar alreadi websit pull togeth these first-hand report account herald by blog, like wikinew.com, launch last novemb.

the blog movement ha been build up for mani year.

andrew nachison, director of the media center, a us-base think-tank that studi media, technolog and societi, highlight the us presidenti race as a possibl turn point for blog. "you could look at that as a moment when audienc exercis a new form of power, to choos among mani more sourc of inform than thei have never had befor," he sai. "and blog were a kei part of that transform." among them were blog carri pictur messag, sai "we ar sorri" for georg w bush's victori and the respons from hi support. mr nachison argu blog have becom independ sourc for imag and idea that circumv tradit sourc of new and inform such as newspap, tv and radio. "we have to acknowledg that in all of these case, mainstream media actual plai a role in the discuss and the distribut of these idea," he told the bbc new websit. "but thei follow the stori, thei didn't lead it."

some part of the so-call tradit media have express concern about thi emerg competitor, rais question about the journalist valu of blog.

other, like the french newspap le mond, have appli a differ strategi, offer blog as part of it content. "i don't think the mission and role of journal is threaten. it is in transit, as societi itself is in transit," sai mr nachison. howev, he agre with other expert like the linguist and polit analyst noam chomski, that mainstream media ha lost the tradit role of new gatekeep. "the on-to-mani road of tradit journal, ye, it is threaten. and profession journalist need to acclim themselv to an environ in which there ar mani more contributor to the discours," sai mr nachison. "the notion of a gatekeep who filter and decid what's accept for public consumpt and what isn't, that's gone forev." "with peopl now walk around with inform devic in their pocket, like camera or video phone, we ar go to see more instanc of ordinari citizen break stori."

it seem unlik that we will end up live in a planet where everi human is a blogger.

but the current number of blog is like to keep on grow, in a web alreadi overload with inform. blog analysi firm technorati estim the number of blog in exist, the so-call blogospher, ha alreadi exceed five million, and is grow at exponenti level. tool such as googl's blogger, movabletyp and the recent launch beta version of msn space ar make it easier to run a blog. us research think-tank pew internet & american life sai a blog is creat everi 5.8 second, although less than 40% of the total ar updat at least onc everi two month. but expert agre that the phenomenon, allow individu to publish, share idea, exchang inform, comment on current issu, post imag or video on the web easili, is here to stai. "we ar enter on era in which the technolog infrastructur is creat a differ context for how we tell our stori and how we commun with each other," said mr nachison. "and there's go to be bad that come with the good."
