blogger ground by her airlin

a us airlin attend is fight for her job after she wa suspend over post on her blog, or onlin diari.

queen of the sky, otherwis known as ellen simonetti, evolv into an anonym semi-fiction account of life in the sky. but after she post pictur of herself in uniform, delta airlin suspend her indefinit without pai. ms simonetti wa told her suspens wa a result of "inappropri" imag. delta airlin declin to comment.

"i wa realli shock, i had no warn," ms simonetti told bbc new onlin. "i never thought i would get in troubl becaus of the blog. i thought if thei had a problem, someon would have said someth befor take action." the issu ha highlight concern amongst the grow blog commun about conflict of interest, employ law and free speech on person websit. ms simonetti wa suspend on 25 septemb pend an investig and ha sinc lodg a complaint with the us equal employ opportun commiss (eeoc). a spokesperson for delta airlin told bbc new onlin: "all i can tell you is we do not discuss intern employe issu with the media." she ad she could not sai whether a similar situat over person websit had occur in the past.

ms simonetti start her person blog in januari to help her get over her mother's death. she had ensur she made no mention of which airlin she work for, and creat fiction name for citi and compani. the airlin's name wa chang to anonym airlin and the citi in which she wa base wa call quirksvil. a larg part of the blog contain fiction stori becaus queen of the sky develop over the month as a charact in her own right, accord to ms simonetti.

the imag were taken from a digit camera she had inherit from her mother. "we often take pictur on flight or on layov. i just though why not includ them on my blog for fun. "i never meant it as someth to harm my compani and don't understand how thei think it did harm them," ms simonetti said. she ha also claim that pictur of male delta airlin employe in uniform ar freeli avail on the web. of the 10 or so imag on the site, onli on show ms simonetti's flight "wing". "thei did not tell me which pictur thei had a problem with. i am just assum it wa the on of me pose on seat where my skirt rode up," she said. the imag were remov as soon as she learn she had been suspend. as far as ms simonetti know, there is no compani anti-blog polici. there is guidanc which suggest the compani uniform cannot be us without approv from manag, but us in person pictur on websit is unclear.

jeffrei matsuura, director of the law and technolog programm at the univers of dayton, said person websit can be hazard for both employ and their employe. "there ar mani exampl of employe who have present some kind of materi onlin that have gotten them in troubl with employ," he said. it wa crucial that ani polici about what wa and what wa not accept wa express clearli, wa reason, and enforc fairli in compani polici. "you have to rememb that as an employe, you don't have total free speech anymor," he said. mr matsuura ad that some compani activ encourag employe to blog. "on of the area where it doe becom a problem is that thei encourag thi when it suit them, but thei mai not be particularli clear when thei [employe] do cross the line." he specul that delta might be concern that the fiction content on the blog mai be link back to the airlin after the imag of ms simonetti in uniform were post. "whether or not that is success will depend on what exactli is prohibit, and whether you can reason sai thi content now cross that line," he said. ms simonetti said her suspens ha caus two of her friend to discontinu their blog. on of them wa ask to stop blog by hi compani befor ani action wa taken. "if thei had ask me just take down the blog, i would have done it, but that wa not been given to me as an option," she said. "thi blog thing is obvious a new problem for employ and thei need to get a polici about it. if i had known it would cost me my job, i would not have done that."
