camera phone ar 'must-have'

four time more mobil with camera in them will be sold in europ by the end of 2004 than last year, sai a report from analyst gartner.

global, the number sold will reach 159 million, an increas of 104%. the report predict that nearli 70% of all mobil phone sold will have a built-in camera by 2008. improv imag technolog in mobil is make them an increasingli "must-have" bui. in europ, camera on mobil can take 1.3 megapixel imag. but in japan and asia pacif, where camera phone technolog is much more advanc, mobil have alreadi been releas which can take 3.2 megapixel imag. japan still domin mobil phone technolog, and the uptak there is huge. by 2008, accord to gartner, 95% of all mobil sold there will have camera on them.

camera phone had some teeth problem when thei were first launch as peopl struggl with poor qualiti imag and us for them, as well as the complex and expens of send them via mm (multimedia messag servic). thi ha chang in the last 18 month. handset maker have concentr on try to make phone easier to us. realis that peopl like to us their camera phone in differ wai, thei have introduc more design featur, like rotat screen and viewfind, remov memori card and easier control to send pictur messag.

mobil compani have introduc more wai for peopl to share photo with other peopl. these have includ give peopl easier wai to publish them on websit, or mobil blog - moblog. but the report suggest that until imag qualiti increas more, peopl will not be interest in print out pictur at kiosk. imag sensor technolog insid camera phone is improv. the gartner report suggest that by mid-2005, it is like that the imag resolut of most camera phone will be more than two megapixel. consum digit camera imag rang from two to four megapixel in qualiti, and up to six megapixel on a high-end camera. but a lot of work is be done to make camera phone more like digit camera. some handset alreadi featur limit zoom capabl, and manufactur ar look into technolog improv that will let peopl take more photo in poorli-lit condit, like nightclub. other develop includ wide-angl mode, basic edit featur, and better sensor and processor for record film clip.

imag from camera phone have even made it into the art world. an exhibit next month in aid of the chariti mencap, will featur snap taken from the camera phone of top artist.

the exhibit, fonetographi, will featur imag taken by photograph david bailei, rankin and nan goldin, and artist sir peter blake, tracei emin and jack vettriano. but some us for them have worri mani organis. intel, samsung, the uk's foreign offic and lawrenc livermor nation laboratori in the us, have decid to ban camera phone from their build for fear of sensit inform be snap and leak. mani school, fit centr and local council have also ban them over fear about privaci and misus. itali's inform commission ha also voic concern and ha issu guidelin on where and how the phone can be us. but camera phone fear have not dampen the manufactur' profit. accord to recent figur, soni ericsson's profit tripl in the third-quarter becaus of new camera phone. over 60% of mobil sold dure the three month through to septemb featur integr camera, it said.
