game 'deserv a place in class'

comput game could enhanc learn and have a legitim place in the classroom, sai research.

academ from the institut of educ at london univers found that "game literaci" wa a kei skill for youngster. as well as be us in differ area of the curriculum, game ar a legitim area of studi in their own right, research sai. pupil should also be abl to creat their own game, thei sai.

"like all game, comput and video game entertain while promot social develop, and plai and talk about game is an import part of young peopl's live," said project manag carolin pelleti.

"game literaci is a wai of investig how game ar mean of express and represent, just like write or draw," she said. the research conduct two studi into the impact of game on educ, the first look at how thei can be us in differ curriculum subject to enhanc learn. research found that girl were often exclud from the male-domin world of game plai. "without first-hand experi of how much fun a game can be, thei have littl motiv to plai and remain disengag from an engross and sociabl activ," said research fellow dian carr.

the second project look at how game can be integr into media educ and conclud that write game should be a core part of studi them. sixth-form teacher barnei oram alreadi teach comput game alongsid the more tradit studi of film, tv and popular music at the a-level cours he run at long road sixth form colleg in cambridg.

for parent, the idea that comput game could be brought into the classroom environ, could caus controversi. dr andrew burn, associ director of the institut of educ's centr for the studi of children, youth and media move to reassur anxiou parent. "game ar a legitim cultur form that deserv critic analysi in school just as film, televis and literatur do," he said. "but we also want to argu that full understand onli come when children have the tool to creat their own game." the game industri welcom the report, sai it show how game had a posit impact on children. "at a time of hyster and inaccur report it is hearten to see the cultur, social and educ valu of comput and video game be assess intellig," said roger bennett, director gener of the entertain and leisur softwar publish associ. "thi report is further evid, if it were need, about the excel and imagin that thrive in game. thei have much to offer to the educ of our children and thei have much to offer as a career." the three-year research project, which is be present at a seminar on tuesdai in london, wa partli fund by the depart of trade and industri.
