nuclear bodi seek new tech

the comput system us to monitor the world's nuclear power instal ar so outdat that thei ar hamper the work of inspector.

a spokesman for the intern atom energi agenc (iaea) said it current technolog could allow kei inform to be overlook as it wa more than 20 year old. such system ar the onli method of track nuclear materi worldwid. the agenc ha appeal for more fund to updat it hardwar and softwar. "a major overhaul of the system is need to allow inspector immedi, secur onlin access to inform," said project manag livio costantini.

iaea inspector make around 3,000 visit a year to more than 900 nuclear facil worldwid. thei ar there to verifi offici report of activ in the plant, to carri out environment check, and also to look for ani sign that nuclear materi is be smuggl in or out of the facil.

the comput system inspector current us for compar data from earlier visit, for instanc, wa built in the 1970s and larg paper base. an iaea spokesman said thi wa extrem ineffici and make search for anomali like search for a needl in a haystack. the organis is aim to start a system upgrad in novemb, aim to provid inspector in the field with secur onlin access to previou inspect data, design blueprint of nuclear facil, even satellit imag of the plant. where possibl, it hope to link the system with nation record of the import and export of nuclear materi. further analysi of these could help spot potenti smuggl activ or illicit technolog transfer between countri, accord to a spokesman.

comput specialist at the iaea, peter smith, would like to be abl to incorpor state of the art visualis techniqu, more familiar to video game player, into the inspector's toolkit. "the commerci you now see have peopl ar move around in a virtual world," he said. "if we could have that on our laptop, we could be walk through the plant see, on the laptop, how the plant should look. "and if there's a door in the wall that is not on our laptop, then we have a problem." the iaea estim the total cost of the four-year project to upgrad it technolog will be $40m. so far it ha onli receiv $11m from the us and the uk. "failur to replac the hardwar and softwar, and to integr fulli all the inform system compon will carri larg risk," said an agenc statement.
