web log aid disast recoveri

some of the most vivid descript of the devast in southern asia ar on the internet - in the form of web log or blog.

blogger have been offer snapshot of inform from around the region and ar also provid some us inform for those who want to help. indian writer rohit gupta edit a group blog call dog without border. when he creat it, the site wa suppos to be a forum to discuss relat between india and pakistan. but in the wake of sundai's tsunami, mr gupta and hi fellow blogger switch gear.

thei want to blog the tsunami and it aftermath. on sri lankan blogger in the group goe by the onlin name morquendi. with internet servic disrupt by the tsunami, morquendi start send sm text messag via cell phone from the affect area of sri lanka. "we start publish these smse," sai mr gupta.

"morquendi wa describ scene like 1,600 bodi wash up on a shore, and peopl buri, and buri and buri them. peopl dig hole with their hand. and thi wa come through an sm messag. "we didn't have visual account on radio or on tv, or in the print media." soon, thousand of web user around the world were log on to read morquendi's first hand account. in on messag, morquendi wrote about a sri lankan woman who wa run home with a friend when the wave hit. "she wa be swept awai," morquendi's messag read. "she grab a tree with on hand and her friend with the other. she sai she watch the water pull her friend awai." mr gupta sai the power of morquendi's text messag blog wa palpabl. "he wa run around, look for friend, buri bodi, carri bodi," mr gupta sai of morquendi. "i can't even begin to imagin the psycholog state he wa in when he wa send us report, and do the relief work at the same time. "he wa caught between be a journalist and be a human be."

other blog ar help to spread inform about relief effort. dina mehta is an indian blogger who's help with the newli creat south east asia earthquak and tsunami blog. she sai the blog is not meant to be fill with first person account. "what we're do is we're build a resourc," she sai. "anyon who sai, ok, i want to come and do some work in india, volunt in india, or in sri lanka or malaysia, thi is the sort of on-stop-shop that thei can come to for all sort of resourc - emerg help line, relief agenc, aid agenc, contact for them etc."

ms mehta also sai she wish that govern in the region would realis the power of blog. "imagin if thei had thi resourc avail to them, if there wa a disast, how quickli you could funnel aid in, and get peopl to help," she sai. blogger in the unit state ar also get involv. ramdhan yadav kotamaraja is origin from india, but now live in dalla. mr kotamaraja want to help those affect by the tsunami by pool monei with concern friend. so, he set up an onlin payment system on hi websit. then, sai mr kotamaraja, the blog world found out. "all my blogger friend start link up my site, and i saw a lot of peopl other than my friend. i'd sai 70% of the donat came from peopl i don't know. "it's simpli unbeliev to me, that peopl that i don't know will come and start donat." new spread quickli on weblog, a phenomenon that help blogger expand their audienc and scope. in sri lanka, blogger morquendi is recruit other to help. on recruit call himself heret. in on of hi latest post, heret ask: "have you ever seen fish trawler on the road? ever seen a bu insid a hous? "well," heret write, "that wa just the least affect area - so you can just imagin - or can you?" he conclud: "keep it blog."

clark boyd is technolog correspond for the world, a bbc world servic and wgbh-boston co-product.
