search war hit desktop pc

anoth front in the on-go battl between microsoft and googl is about to be open.

by the end of 2004 microsoft aim to launch search softwar to find ani kind of file on a pc hard drive. the move is in answer to googl's releas of it own search tool that catalogu data on desktop pc. the desktop search market is becom increasingli crowd as googl, aol, yahoo and mani smaller firm tout program that help peopl find file.

microsoft made the announc about it forthcom search softwar dure a call to financi analyst to talk about it first quarter result. john connor, microsoft's chief financi offic said a test version of it desktop search softwar should be avail for download by the end of the year.

"we're go to have a heck of a great race in search between googl, microsoft and yahoo," he said. "it's go to be realli fun to follow." microsoft is come late to the desktop search arena and it softwar will have to compar favour with program from a larg number of rival, mani of which have fierc dedic popul of user. the program could be base on the softwar microsoft own as a result of it purchas of lookout softwar in earli octob. on 14 octob googl releas desktop search softwar that catalogu all the file on a pc and let user us on tool to find e-mail messag, spreadsheet, text file and present. the softwar will also find webpag and messag sent via aol instant messeng.

mani other firm have releas desktop search system recent too. compani such as blinkx, copern, enfish x1 technolog and x-friend all do the same job of catalogu the huge amount of inform that peopl increasingli store on their desktop or home comput.

appl ha also debut a similar search system for it comput call spotlight that is due to debut with the releas of the tiger oper system. due to follow ar net giant aol and yahoo. the latter recent bought stata lab to get it hand on search softwar that peopl can us. microsoft is also reputedli work on a novel search system for the next version of window (codenam longhorn). howev thi is not like to appear until 2006. "the recent activ in the search industri show that there is a need to move beyond simpl keyword-base web search," said kathi rittweg, co-founder of blinkx. "find inform of our own comput is becom as difficult as it is to find the relev webpag amongst the billion that exist."

desktop search ha becom import for sever reason. accord to research by messag analyst the radicati group up to 45% of the inform critic to keep mani busi run sit in e-mail messag and attach. jf sullivan, spokesman for e-mail softwar firm sendmail said mani organis were start to realis how import messag wa to their organis and the wai the work. "the kei thing is be abl to manag all thi inform," he said. also search is increasingli kei to the wai that peopl get around the internet. mani peopl us a search engin as the first page thei go to when get on the net. mani other us desktop toolbar that let them search for inform no matter what other program thei ar us. have a tool on a desktop can be a lucr wai to control where peopl go onlin. for compani such as googl which reli on revenu from advert thi knowledg about what peopl ar look for is worth huge amount of monei. but thi invas ha alreadi led some to ask about the privaci implic of such tool.
