podcast mark rise of dii radio

an appl ipod or other digit music player can hold anyth up to 10,000 song, which is a lot of space to fill.

but more and more ipod owner ar fill that space with audio content creat by an unpredict assort of produc. it is call "podcast" and it strongest propon is former mtv host and vj (video jockei) adam curri. podcast take it name from the appl ipod, although you do not need an ipod to creat on or to listen to a podcast. a podcast is basic an internet-base radio show which podcast creat, usual in the comfort of their own home. thei need onli a microphon, a pc, and some edit softwar. thei then upload their show to the internet and other can download and listen to them, all for free. us technolog base on xml comput code and rss - realli simpl syndic - listen can subscrib to podcast collect automat in a bit of softwar, which mr curri ha pioneer. the latest mp3 file of show can then be pick up by a music plai devic automat.

mr curri record, host, edit and produc a daili, 40 minut podcast call the daili sourc code. he want to make podcast "the next big thing" and sai it is an extens of hi childhood love of radio gadgetri. "i wa alwai into technolog and wire," he explain. "my parent gave me the radio shack 101 project kit, which allow you to build an am transmitt and subsequ an fm transmitt. "i had my mom drive me around the block, see how far it would reach on the car radio."

mr curri is american, but he grew up in the netherland where he host illeg, pirat radio show in the dutch capit. he tri univers in the us, and end up back in holland where he host a music video show. he spent the next seven year in new york where he work at mtv host the top 20 video countdown, but spent most of hi hour tinker with thi new thing call the internet. "at a certain point in 1995, i wa drive in on a fridai afternoon, beauti blue sky, on of those beauti dai think, thi is so stupid. "you know, i'm go do the top 20 countdown, take the chequ, go home, and sit on the internet until three in the morn. "so, after i finish the show, i quit. i said, on air, it's been great, i've been here for seven year at that point, there's someth on the internet, i've got to go find it, and i'll see you later."

but mr curri's technolog and broadcast interest start to gel a coupl of year ago when comput storag wa grow exponenti and high-speed internet connect were becom more wide avail. the mp3 format also meant that peopl could creat and upload audio more cheapli and effici than ever befor.

most importantli, mr curri sai, peopl across the globe were bore with the radio thei were hear. "listen to 99% of the radio that you hear todai, it's radio voic, and it's fake, it's just fake." he want to make it easier for peopl to find "real voic" on the internet. he want softwar that would automat download new audio content directli onto player like, ipod. mr curri is not a comput programm, so he ask other to creat on for him. no on did, so he tri to write on himself. he finish it a few month ago and sai it "total suck." he put it up on the net as open sourc softwar and now dozen of coder and audio junki ar refin it; the result is a work in progress call "ipodd". doug kay, a california-base podcast, prais the former mtv vj for what he ha done. "adam creat a simpl script that solv what we call the last mile problem. ipodd take audio from the web and bring it all the wai down to the mp3 player," he explain. "peopl can wake up in the morn, pick up their ipod as thei go to work or befor thei go exercis, and discov that there's all thi new content automat put onto their player." it is creat an explos in podcast content and podcast ar spring up in australia, finland, brazil, even malaysia. on coupl broadcast their, the dawn and drew show, from wisconsin in the us, sometim even from the comfort of their own bed. topic rang from the comfort of their bed, to the latest film or music and have thousand of listen.

alreadi, websit ar spring up that point listen in the right direct of good podcast.

chri mcintyr run podcast allei and sai that there ar good site out there but that not everyon ha the technolog know-how to simpli listen. "if i were to tell my mom, or my mother-in-law to copi an xml or rss file to their podcast aggreg, thei would think i wa speak a foreign languag," mr mcintyr sai. along with technic challeng, there mai be legal challeng to podcast who air their favourit, albeit copyright, music. some in podcast also worri that too much attent mai turn what thei see as the "anti-radio" into someth that is more like convent broadcast. alreadi there is interest in podcast from the corpor world. heineken is do it own podcast now, and so is playboi. for hi part, adam curri's press ahead with hi own vision of what podcast should be. he love do the daili sourc code becaus it is about introduc good music and cool idea to new audienc. he ha even been call the ed sullivan or johnni carson of podcast which, he sai, "is a badg i'll wear with great honour. "to be the johnni carson, or ed sullivan of anyth is wonder. and you know what? you don't need a hell of a lot of talent. "you just have to be nice, have your ear open, and let peopl shine. and that's good for me."

clark boyd is technolog correspond for the world, a bbc world servic and wgbh-boston co-product.
