viewer to be abl to shape tv

imagin edit titan down to watch just your favourit bit or cut out the slushier moment of star war to leav you with a bare bone action-fest.

manipul your favourit film to make a more personalis movi is just the begin of an ambiti new 7.5m euro (£5.1m) project fund by the european union. new media for a new millennium (nm2) will have as it endgam the develop of a complet new media genr, which will allow audienc to creat their own media world base on their specif interest or tast. viewer will be abl to particip in storylin, manipul plot and even the set and prop of tv show. bt is on of 13 partner involv in the project. it will be contribut softwar that wa origin design to spot anomali in cctv pictur. the softwar us content recognit algorithm. the three-year project will work on seven product as it develop a set of softwar tool that will allow viewer to edit content to their need.

on of the product will be a experiment televis show where the plot will be driven by text messag from the tv audienc.

particip will text select word which will impact how the charact in the drama interact. it is be develop in finland and will be shown to finnish tv audienc. anoth team will work on the bbc's big budget drama of mervyn peak's gothic fantasi gormenghast. it will be re-engin to allow peopl to choos a varieti of edit version. "the bbc is allow us access to the materi so that we can prove the technolog and the principl," explain dr doug william of bt, who will be nm2's technic project manag. "the tv at the moment is a rel dumb box which receiv signal. thi project is about teach the machin to look at content like lego block that can be reassembl to make perfect sens," he said. "at the moment we have interact game and a limit form of interact tv which usual mean allow audienc to vote on show. we ar hope to occupi the space in-between," he ad.

nm2's co-ordin peter stollenmay explain that the new genr would radic alter the role of the audienc.

"viewer will be abl to interact directli with the medium and influenc what thei see and hear accord to their person tast and wish," he said. "media user will no longer be passiv viewer but becom activ engag." it will also be import that the tool ar sophist enough to obei the complex rule of cinematographi and edit said john wyver, from tv produc illumin televis limit, which is also involv in the project. "it's not just a matter of string togeth the romant or action portion of a product," said mr wyver. "the tool ha to know which bit fit togeth both visual, by observ the time-honour rule that go in edit, and in term of the stori." "onli then will the personalis version both make sens and be aesthet pleas," he ad. mr wyver is plan a product entitl the golden ag, about renaiss art. it will allow viewer to creat a so-call media world base on their own specif area of interest such as poetri, music and architectur. other product that the nm2 team will make rang from new, documentari to a romant comedi drama.
