game maker fight for surviv

on of britain's largest independ game maker, argonaut game, ha been put up for sale.

the london-base compani behind the harri potter game ha sack about 100 employe due to a sever cash crisi. the administr told bbc new onlin that sell argonaut wa the onli wai to save it as it had run out of cash. argonaut warn that it wa low on cash 10 dai ago when it share were suspend from trade on the london stock exchang.

argonaut ha been make game for some 18 year and is on the largest independ game develop in the uk.

along with it headquart in north london, it oper studio in cambridg and sheffield. argonaut wa behind the harri potter game which provid a healthi flow of cash into the compani. but, like all softwar develop, argonaut need a constant flow of deal with publish. sign that it wa in troubl emerg in august, when it warn it wa head for loss of £6m in the financi year due to delai in sign new contract for game. those new deal were further delai, lead argonaut to warn in mid-octob that it wa run out of cash and suspend trade of it share on the london stock exchang. as part of cost-cut measur, some 100 employe were fire. "when the new about the £6m loss came out, we knew there were go to be redund," said jason parkinson, on of the game develop sack by argonaut. "a lot of peopl suspect that argonaut had been in troubl for some time," he told bbc new onlin. mr parkinson said staff were told the job loss were necessari to save argonaut from go under. at the start of the year, the compani emploi 268 peopl. after the latest round of cut there ar 80 staff at argonaut headquart in edgwar in north london, with 17 at it morphem offic in kentish town, london, and 22 at the just add monster base in cambridg.

argonaut call in administr david rubin & partner on fridai to find a wai to rescu the compani from collaps. it spent the weekend go over the compani's financ and conclud that the onli wai to save the busi wa to put it up for sale. the administr told bbc new onlin that the cost of restructu would be too high, partli becaus of the overhead from the compani's four premis across the uk. it said it wa hope that it could save some 110 job by sell the busi, sai it had had express of interest from sever quarter and were look for a quick sale. the administr said it would ensur that staff made redund would receiv ani wage, redund or holidai pai due to them, hopefulli by christma.
