argonaut founder rebuild empir

jez san, the man behind the argonaut game group which went into administr a week ago, ha bought back most of the compani.

the veteran game develop ha taken over the cambridg-base just add monster studio and the london subsidiari morphem. the argonaut group went into administr due to a sever cash crisi, fire about half of it staff. in august it had warn of annual loss of £6m for the year to 31 juli.

jez san is on of the kei figur in the uk's game industri. the develop, who receiv an ob in 2002, wa estim to have been worth more than £200m at the peak of the dotcom boom.

he found argonaut in 1982 and ha been behind titl such as 1993 starfox game. more recent it wa behind the harri potter game for the playstat. but, like all softwar develop, argonaut need a constant flow of deal with publish. in august it warn of annual loss of £6m, blame delai in sign new contract and tough condit in the softwar industri. the group's three subsidiari were place in administr a week ago, with mr san resign as the compani's ceo and some 100 staff be fire. after the latest round of cut, there were 80 worker at argonaut headquart in edgwar in north london, with 17 at it morphem offic in kentish town, london, and 22 at the just add monster base in cambridg. mr san ha re-emerg, bui back morphem and just add monster. "we ar pleas to announc the sale of these two busi as go concern," said david rubin of administr david rubin & partner. "thi ha save over 40 job as well as the substanti employ claim that would have arisen had the sale not been achiev." mr rubin said the administr were in talk over the sale of the argonaut softwar divis in edgwar and were hope of find a buyer. "thi is a veri difficult time for all the employe there, but i salut their commit to the busi while we work toward a solut," he said. some former employe ar angri at the wai cash crisi wa handl. on told bbc new onlin that the staff who had been fire had been "financi ruin in the space of a dai".
