dozen held over id fraud site

twenti-eight peopl, includ a briton, have been arrest after a global oper against a websit allegedli involv in ident fraud.

those arrest ar accus of oper shadowcrew.com, which investig claim wa a global clear hous for crimin involv in credit card fraud. a 19-year-old man from camberlei, surrei, wa arrest by the nation hi-tech crime unit but ha been bail. oper firewal, led by the us secret servic, involv seven nation. the british teenag wa arrest on wednesdai but detail onli emerg on fridai. he ha now been bail to return to a surrei polic station in decemb. all 28 peopl detain global ar suspect of be involv in an internet-base network which stole peopl's ident and us comput and websit to defraud credit card compani. the author in the us, who have indict 19 peopl in newark, new jersei, estim the fraud caus loss of more than $4m. assist us attornei scott christi said sever peopl had been arrest in argentina, bulgaria, canada, estonia, poland and sweden. mr christi said on of the ringlead wa believ to be a russian, anatoli tyukanov.

investig from 30 law enforc agenc worldwid spent 15 month look into the activ of three websit - shadowcrew, carderplanet and darkprofit. the us secret servic wa first tip off in juli 2003. an nhtcu spokeswoman said the american investig went undercov on the shadowcrew websit and discov some of the site's 4,000 member were us it for organis crime purpos.

she said crimin were us the websit to traffic counterfeit credit card and fals identif inform and document such as credit card, driver's licenc, passport and birth certif. the websit share tip on how to commit fraud and provid a forum by which peopl could bui the inform and tool thei need to commit such crime, she said. the shadowcrew site, which ha now been taken over by the us secret servic, list sever discuss group, in english and russian, includ on on hack, spam and onlin anonym tool. the head of the nhtcu, act detect chief superintend, mick deat, said: "thi investig ha result in the signific disrupt of organis crimin us the internet for profit.

"we believ that the suspect have traffick at least 1.7 million stolen credit card number, lead to loss by financi institut run into the million." chief supt deat went on to warn: "the internet offer huge legitim benefit for modern societi; howev with it bring power opportun for those seek to abus those benefit for crimin gain. "your ident is on of the most preciou commod. crimin who try to steal the person and financi inform of ordinari citizen as well as the confidenti and proprietari inform of compani engag in e-commerc, will be target by law enforc."
