robot learn 'robotiquett' rule

robot ar learn lesson on "robotiquett" - how to behav social - so thei can mix better with human.

by plai game, like pass-the-parcel, a univers of hertfordshir team is find out how futur robot companion should react in social situat. the studi's find will eventu help human develop a code of social behaviour in human-robot interact. the work is part of the european cogniron robot project, and wa on show at london's scienc museum.

"we ar assum a situat in which a us human companion robot alreadi exist," said professor kerstin dautenhahn, project leader at hertfordshir. "our mission is to look at how such a robot should be program to respect person space of human."

the research also focus on human percept of robot, includ how thei should look, and how a robot can learn new skill by imit a human demonstr. "without such studi, you will build robot which might not respect the fact that human ar individu, have prefer and come from differ cultur background," professor dautenhahn told bbc new onlin. "and i want robot to treat human as human be, and not like other robot," she ad.

in most situat, a companion robot will eventu have to deal not onli with on person, but also with group of peopl. to find out how thei would react, the hertfordshir cogniron team taught on robot to plai pass-the-parcel with children.

show off it skill at the scienc museum, the unnam robot had to select, approach, and ask differ children to pick up a parcel with a gift, move it arm as a pointer and it camera as an ey. it even us speech to give instruct and plai music. howev, accord to research, it will still take mani year to build a robot which would make full us of the "robotiquett" for human interact. "if you think of a robot as a companion for the human be, you can think of 20 year into the futur," conclud professor dautenhahn. "it might take even longer becaus it is veri, veri hard to develop such a robot."

you can hear more on thi stori on the bbc world servic's go digit programm.
