concern over window atm

cash machin network could soon be more suscept to comput virus, a secur firm ha warn.

the warn is be issu becaus mani bank ar start to us the window oper system in machin. alreadi there have been four incid in which window virus have disrupt network of cash machin run the microsoft oper system. but bank expert sai the danger is be overplai and that the risk of infect and disrupt ar small.

for mani year the vener ibm oper system, known as os/2, ha been the stapl softwar us to power mani of the 1.4m cash machin in oper around the world. but ibm will end support for os/2 in 2006 which is forc bank to look for altern. there ar also other pressur make bank turn to window said domin hirsch, manag director of financi analysi firm retail bank research.

he said mani cash machin will also have to be upgrad to make full us of the new europai, mastercard and visa credit card that us comput chip instead of magnet stripe to store data. us law that demand disabl peopl get equal access to inform will also forc bank to make their cash machin more versatil and abl to present inform in differ wai. todd thiemann, spokesman for anti-viru firm trend micro, said the move to window in cash machin wa not without risk. mr thiemann said research by the towergroup show that 70% of new cash machin be instal were window base.

alreadi, he said, there have been four incid in which cash machin have been unavail for hour due to virus affect the network of the bank that own them.

in januari 2003 the slammer worm knock out 13,000 cash machin of the bank of america and mani of those oper by the canadian imperi bank of commerc. in august of the same year, cash machin of two un-name bank were put out of action for hour follow an infect by the welchia worm. incid like thi happen, said mr thiemann, becaus when bank start us window cash machin thei also chang the network technolog us to link the devic to their back offic comput. thi often mean that all the cash machin and comput in a bank share the same data network. "thi could mean that cash machin get caught up in the virus that ar go around becaus thei have a common transmiss system," he said. "bank need to consid protect as part of the invest to maintain the secur of that network," mr thiemann told bbc new onlin.

but mr hirsch from retail bank research said the number of cash machin actual at risk wa low becaus so few were upgrad everi year.

current, he said, a cash machin ha a lifetim of up to 10 year which mean that onli about 10% of all atm get swap for a newer model everi year. "window cash machin have been around for sever year," he said. "most bank simpli upgrad as part of their usual replac cycl." "in theori there is a bigger threat with window than os/2," he said, "but i do not think that the bank ar huge concern at the moment." "it's pretti unusu to hear about viru problem with atm," he said. the mani differ secur system built-in to cash machin meant there wa no chanc that a viru could caus them to start spit out cash spontan, he said. bank were more like to be worri about intern network be overwhelm by worm and virus and custom not be abl to get cash out at all, he ad. a spokesman for the associ of payment and clear servic (apac) which repres the uk's payment industri said the risk from virus wa minim. "there's no concern that there's go to be ani type of viru hit the uk network," he said. risk of infect were small becaus the data network that connect uk cash machin togeth and the oper of the atm themselv were a much smaller and tightli-knit commun than in the us where virus have struck.
