attack prompt bush site block

the offici re-elect site of presid georg w bush is block visit from oversea user for "secur reason".

the block began earli on mondai so those outsid the us and try to view the site got a messag sai thei ar not authoris to view it. but keen net user have shown that the polici is not be veri effect. mani have found that the site can still be view by oversea browser via sever altern net address.

the polici of try to stop oversea visitor view the site is thought to have been adopt in respons to an attack on the georgewbush.com websit. scott stanzel, a spokesman for the bush-chenei campaign said: "the measur wa taken for secur reason." he declin to elabor ani further on the block polici. the bar of non-us visitor ha led to the campaign be inund with call and forc it to make a statement about why the block wa take place. in earli octob a so-call "denial of servic" attack wa mount on the site that bombard it with data from thousand of pc. the attack made the site unus for about five hour.

about the same time the web team of the bush-chenei campaign start us the servic of a compani call akamai that help websit deal with the ebb and flow of visitor traffic. akamai us a web-base tool call edgescap that let it custom work out where visitor ar base. typic thi tool is us to ensur that webpag, video and imag load quickli but it can also be us to block traffic. geograph block work becaus the numer address that the net us to organis itself ar hand out on a region basi. reader of the boingbo weblog have found that viewer can still get at the site by us altern form of the georg w bush domain name. iron on of the work altern is for a supposedli more secur version of the site. there ar now at least three work altern domain for the bush-chenei campaign that let web user outsid the us visit the site. the site can also be seen us anonym proxi servic that ar base in the us. some web user in canada also report that thei can brows the site.

the intern exclus zone around georgewbush.com wa spot by net monitor firm netcraft which keep an ey on traffic pattern across mani differ site.

netcraft said that sinc the earli hour of 25 octob attempt to view the site through it monitor station in london, amsterdam and sydnei have fail. by contrast netcraft's four monitor station in the us manag to view the site with no problem. data gather by netcraft on the pattern of traffic to the site show that the block is not the result of anoth denial of servic attack. mike prettejohn, netcraft presid, specul that the block decis might have been taken to cut cost, and traffic, in the run-up to the elect on 2 novemb. he said the site mai see no reason to distribut content to peopl who will not be vote next week. manag traffic could also be a good wai to ensur that the site stai work in the close dai of the elect campaign. howev, simpli block non-us visitor also mean that american oversea ar bar too. most american soldier station oversea will be abl to see the site as thei us the us militari's own portion of the net. akamai declin to comment, sai it could not talk about custom websit.
