the forc is strong in battlefront

the warm recept that ha greet star war: battlefront is a reflect not of ani ingeni innov in it gameplai, but of it back-to-basic approach and immens nostalgia quotient.

gear toward onlin gamer, it is base around littl more than a seri of all-out gunfight, set in an arrai of locat all featur in, or hint at dure, the two blockbust film trilogi. previou star war titl like the acclaim knight of the old republ and jedi knight have regularli impress with their imagin forai into the far corner of the franchis's extens univers, and their us of weird and wonder new charact. battlefront on the other hand wholeheartedli revisit the most recognis element of the hit movi themselv.

the sight, sound and protagonist on show here will all be instantli familiar to fan, who mai well feel that the opportun to reliv star war' most memor screen skirmish make thi the game thei have alwai wait for. the mayhem can be view from either a third or first-person perspect, and you can either fight for the forc of freedom or join darth vader on the dark side, depend on the episod and type of campaign as well as the player's person propens for good or evil.

there is ampl chanc to be a wooki, shoot ewok and rush into battl alongsid a fire-up luke skywalk. in each section, the task is simpli to wipe out enemi troop, seiz strateg waypoint and move on to the next planet. it realli is no more complic than that. locat includ the frozen wast of hoth, the ic planet from the empir strike back, complet with massiv mechan at-at on the march. there ar also the dusti, sinist desert of tatooin and geonosi, as well as the forest moon of endor, where return of the jedi's much-malign ewok live. the feel of those place is well and truli captur, with both backdrop and charact look good and veri authent. it is worth note though that on the playstat 2, the game's graphic ar a curious long wai behind those of the xbox version. the pivot element behind battlefront's success is that it successfulli give you the feel of be of be plung into the midst of larg-scale war. the number of combat, nois and abund of laser fire see to that, and the sens of chao realli come over.

speak of nois, battlefront is a real testament to the strength of the star war galaxi's audio motif.

the multitud of distinct weapon and vehicl nois ar immens familiar, as ar the stir john william symphoni that never let up. there is also a particularli snazzi remix of on of hi theme in the menu section. it ha to be said if the game did not have the boon of be star war, it would not stand up for long. the gameplai is reliabl, bog-standard stuff, short on origin. there ar also odd annoy, like the game's insist on re-spawn you mile awai from the action, an irrit price to pai for not get blown up the second you appear. and some of the weapon and vehicl ar not as respons and fluid to oper as thei might be. that said, it is still great fun to pilot a scout walker or speeder bike, howev non user-friendli thei prove. whilst it is firmli design with multiplay action in mind, battlefront is actual perfectli good fun as an offlin game. the abov-averag ai of the enemi see to that, although given the frenet environ thei oper in, their strateg behaviour doe not need to be all that sophist. battlefront's novelti valu will doubtless wear off rel fast, leav behind a slightli empti on-trick-poni of a game. but for a while, it is an absolut blast, and on of the most immedi satisfi video game offer yet from georg luca' stabl.
