broadband in the uk grow fast

high-speed net connect in the uk ar prove more popular than ever.

bt report that more peopl sign up for broadband in the last three month than in ani other quarter. the 600,000 connect take the total number of peopl in the uk sign up for broadband from bt to almost 3.3 million. nation more than 5 million brows the net via broadband. britain now ha among the highest number of broadband connect throughout the whole of europ.

accord to figur gather by industri watchdog, ofcom, the growth mean that the uk ha now surpass germani in term of broadband user per 100 peopl. the uk total of 5.3 million translat into 7.5 connect per 100 peopl, compar to 6.7 in germani and 15.8 in the netherland. the number of peopl sign up to broadband includ those that get their servic direct from bt or via the mani compani that re-sell bt line under their own name. part of the surg in peopl sign up wa due to bt stretch the reach of adsl - the uk's most wide us wai of get broadband - beyond 6km.

asymmetr digit subscrib line technolog let ordinari copper phone line support high data speed. the standard speed is 512kbp, though faster connect ar avail. "thi breakthrough led to a dramat increas in order as we were suddenli abl to satisfi the pent-up demand that exist in mani area," said paul reynold, chief execut of bt wholesal which provid phone line that other firm re-sell. bt retail, which sell net servic under it own name, also had a good quarter and provid about 30% of the new broadband custom. thi wa a slight increas on the previou three month. despit the good new about growth in broadband, figur from telecommun regul ofcom show that bt face increas competit, and dwindl influenc, in other sector. local loop unbundl, (llu), in which bt rival instal their hardwar in exchang and take over the line to a custom's home or offic, is grow steadili. cabl & wireless and ntl have announc that thei ar invest million to start offer llu servic. by the end of septemb more than 4.2 million phone line were us so-call carrier pre-section (cp) servic, such as talktalk and on.tel, which rout phone call across non-bt network from a local exchang. there ar now more than 300 differ firm offer cp servic and the percentag of peopl us bt line for voic call ha shrunk to 55.4%.
