us blogger fire by her airlin

a us airlin attend suspend over "inappropri imag" on her blog - web diari - sai she ha been fire.

ellen simonetti, known as queen of the sky, wrote an anonym semi-fiction account of her life in the sky. she wa suspend by delta in septemb. in a statement, she said she wa initi legal action against the airlin for "wrong termin". a delta spokesperson confirm on wednesdai that ms simonetti wa no longer an employe. delta ha repeatedli declin to elabor on what it call "intern employe matter". a spokesperson reiter thi posit on wednesdai, confirm onli that ms simonetti wa no longer with the compani. the spokesperson also confirm that there were "veri clear rule" attach to the unauthoris us of delta brand, includ uniform. ms simonetti announc on her blog she had been fire on 1 novemb.

she said in an offici statement: "as a result of my suspens and subsequ termin without caus by delta airlin i am move forward with file a discrimin complaint with the feder govern eeoc [us equal employ opportun commiss]." she ad she had also hire a texa-base law firm to initi legal action for "wrong termin, defam of charact and lost futur wage." ms simonetti told the bbc new websit she had receiv no warn or further explan when she wa suspend on 25 septemb. queen of the sky ha receiv a lot of support and advic from the global blog commun sinc new of her suspens wa brought to light on the bbc new websit and other.

her stori ha highlight concern amongst the grow blog commun about conflict of interest, employ law and free speech on person websit. the blog, which she start in januari as a wai of get over her mother's death, contain a mix of fiction and non-fiction account. queen of the sky develop over the month as a charact in her own right, accord to ms simonetti. in the post, she made up fiction name for citi and other compani she mention to protect anonym. but some post contain imag of herself in uniform. of the 10 or so imag onli on show ms simonetti's flight "wing". she remov them as soon as she wa inform of her suspens. "i never meant it as someth to harm my compani and don't understand how thei think it did harm them," ms simonetti said. a legal expert in the us specul that delta might be concern that the fiction content on the blog mai be link back to the airlin after the imag were post.

delta ha been hit recent by pressur of rise fuel cost and fierc competit. it ha said it need to cut between 6,000 and 7,000 job and reduc cost by $5bn (£2.7bn) a year. analyst had warn recent that the airlin might have to seek chapter 11 bankruptci prevent. last week, it struck a $1bn cost-cut deal with it pilot which could save it from bankruptci. the deal would see pilot accept a 32% pai cut in return for the right to bui 30 million delta share, union said. and on mondai, it negoti a deal to defer about $135m in debt which wa due next year, until 2007. the airlin also said it had agre the term of a $600m loan from american express.
