gate open biggest gadget fair

bill gate ha open the consum electron show (ce) in la vega, sai that gadget ar work togeth more to help peopl manag multimedia content around the home and on the move.

mr gate made no announc about the next gener xbox game consol, which mani gadget lover had been hope for. about 120,000 peopl ar expect to attend the trade show which stretch over more than 1.5 million squar feet and run from 6 to 9 januari. the latest trend in digit imag, storag technolog, thinner flat screen and high-definit tv, wireless and portabl technolog, game, and broadband technolog will all be on show over the three dai.

mr gate said that a lot of work had been done in the last year to sort out usabl and compat issu between devic to make it easier to share content.

"we predict at the begin of the decad that the digit approach would be taken for grant - but there wa a lot of work to do. "what is fun is to come to the show and see what ha been done. it is go even faster than we expect and we ar excit about it." he highlight technolog trend over the last year that had driven the need to make technolog and transfer content across differ devic "seamless". "game is becom more of a social thing and all of the social genr will us thi rich commun. "and if we look at what ha been go on with e-mail, instant messag, blog, entertain - if we can make thi seamless, we can creat someth quit phenomen."

mr gate said the pc, like microsoft's media centr, had a central role to plai in how peopl would be make the most out of audio, video and imag but it would not be the onli devic. "it is the wai all these devic work togeth which will make the differ," he said. he also cite the success of the microsoft xbox video game halo 2, releas in novemb, which push xbox consol sale past playstat in the last two month of 2004 for the first time in 2004. the game, which make us of the xbox live onlin game servic, ha sold 6.23 million copi sinc it releas. "peopl ar onlin and plai togeth and that realli point to the futur," he said. sever partnership with devic and hardwar manufactur were highlight dure mr gate' speech, but there were few major groundbreak new technolog announc. although most of these affect larg us consum, the technolog highlight the kind of trend to come. these includ what mr gate call an "ecosystem of technolog", like sbc's iptv, a high-definit tv and digit video record that work via broadband to give high-qualiti and fast tv. there were also other deal announc which meant that peopl could watch and control content over portabl devic and mobil phone.

ce featur sever more kei speech from major technolog player, such as intel and hewlett packard, as well as parallel confer session on game, storag, broadband and the futur of digit music. about 50,000 new product will be unleash at the tech-fest, which is the largest yet. consum electron and gadget had a phenomen year in 2004, accord to figur releas by ce organis the cea on tuesdai. the gadget explos signal the strongest growth yet in the us in 2004. that trend is predict to continu with wholesal shipment of consum technolog expect to grow by 11% again in 2005.
