gta sequel is crimin good

the grand theft auto seri of game have set themselv the veri highest of standard in recent year, but the newest addit is more than abl to live up to an increasingli grand tradit.

the 18 certif gta: san andrea for the playstat 2 could have got awai with mere revisit a best-sell formula with a more-of-the-same approach. instead, it build and expand almost immeasur upon the last two game and stomp, carefre, over all the driv3r and true crime-shape opposit. even in the year that will see sequel to halo and half-life, it is hard to envisag anyth top thi barnstorm instant classic.

the basic gameplai remain familiar. you control a charact, on thi occas a youth name cj, who set out on a seri of self-contain mission within a massiv 3d environ. cj can command ani vehicl he stumbl across from a push-bike to a citi bu to a plane. all come in handi as he seek to establish hi presenc in a tough urban environ and aveng the dread deed wage upon hi famili. to make thing wors, he is frame for murder the moment he arriv in town, and blackmail by crook cop plai by samuel l jackson and chri penn. the set for all thi rampant crimin is the fiction us state of san andrea, compris three major citi: lo santo, which is a thinli-disguis lo angel, san fierro, aka san francisco and la ventura, a carbon copi of la vega. san andrea suck you in with it sprawl rang, cast of charact and incred sharp write.

it abil to captur the ambienc of the real-world version of these citi is someth to behold, assist no end by the monument graphic advanc sinc vice citi. the street, and vast swath of countrysid, ar by turn glorious menac, grungi and preppi. flaunt awesom level of graphic detail, the game's overal look, particularli dure the mani unusu weather condit and dramat sunset, is stupend. the outstand bread-and-butter gameplai mechan provid a solid ground for the elabor plot to hang on. car handl more convincingli than ever, a superb motion blur kick in when you hit high speed, and there's more traffic to navig than befor. park your vehicl across the lane of a freewai, and within second there will be a huge pile-up. pedestrian ar also out in forc, and ar a loquaci bunch. cj can interact with them us a simpl system on the control pad. thei will pass comment on hi appear and credibl, aspect that the player now ha control over. cloth, tattoo and haircut can all be purchas, and fund these habit can be achiev by crimin mean or by indulg in mini-game like bet on hors and challeng bar patron to game of pool. the charact will put on or lose weight accord to how long he spend on foot or in the gym. he will have to paus regularli in restaur to keep energi level up, but will swell up as a result of over-eat. and at last, thi is a gta hero who can swim.

at a time when game ar onc again under fire for their suppos potenti to corrupt the young, san andrea' violenc, or specif the freedom it give the player to commit violenc, ar sure to inflam the pro-censorship brigad. develop rockstar have not shi awai from brutal, and in some respect ramp it up from past out.

when hijack a car, for exampl, cj will gratuit shove the driver's head into the steer wheel rather than just flee with the vehicl. inde, the tone is darker than the jokei vice citi. the grim subject matter here hardli lend itself to gag in quit the same wai as the cheesi 80s set of the last game. thi titl, incident, is set in 1992, but that is realli neither here nor there apart from the influenc it ha on the radio playlist. the wit is still present, just more restrain than in previou out. a further reason for thi is that the incred rang of in-vehicl radio station avail mean you will spend less time happen upon the hilari talk radio option, where gta game' trademark humour is anchor. the qualiti of voic act and motion captur is simpli off-the-chart. the game's rather odiou gangland lowlif swagger and mouth off in a wai that ring veri true inde. it is a testament to san andrea' magnific that it ha a number of promin flaw, but plu-point ar so numer that the niggl don't detract. the on-screen map, for instanc, is needlessli fiddli, an unwelcom chang from past edit. there is also a veri jar slowdown at action-pack moment. and the game suffer from the ag-old problem that can be reli upon to blight all game of thi genr, set you back a vast distanc when you fail right at the veri end of a long mission. but the gameplai experi in it entireti is overwhelmingli posit. you simpli will not be bother by these minor fail. san andrea is among the few unmiss game of 2004.
