when invent turn to innov

it is unlik that futur technolog invent ar go to have the same kind of transform impact that thei did in the past.

when histori take a look back at great invent like the car and transistor, thei were defin technolog which ultim chang peopl's live substanti. but, sai nick donofrio, senior vice-presid of technolog and manufactur at ibm, it wa not "the thing" itself that actual improv peopl's live. it wa all the social and cultur chang that the discoveri or invent brought with it. the car brought about a crucial chang to how peopl live in citi, give them the abil to move out into the suburb, whilst have mobil and access. "when we talk about innov and creat real valu in the 21st centuri, we have to think more like thi, but faster," mr donofrio told the bbc new websit, after give the royal academi of engin 2004 hinton lectur. "the invent, discoveri is like not to have the same valu as the transistor had or the automobil had. "the equival of those thing will be invent or discov, but by themselv, thei ar just not go to abl to gener real busi valu or wealth as these thing did." these ar not altogeth new idea, and academ have been explor how technolog impact wider societi for year. but what it mean for technolog compani is that a new idea, method, or devic, will have to have a differ kind think behind it so that peopl see the valu that innov technolog ha for them.

we ar in a differ phase now when it come to technolog, argu mr donofrio, industri week's 2003 technolog leader of the year. the hype and over-promis is over and now technolog leader have to demonstr that thing work, make sens, make a differ and life get better as a result.

"in the dotcom era, there wa someth that wa jump up in your face everi five minut. "somebodi had a new thing that would aw you. you weren't quit sure that it did anyth, you weren't quit sure if you need it, you weren't quit sure if it had valu for it, but it wa cool." but chang and innov in technolog that peopl will see affect their daili live, he sai, will come about slowli, subtleti, and in wai that will no longer be "in your face". it will creep in pervas. nanotechnolog will plai a kei part in thi kind of pervas environ in all sort of wai, through new superconduct materi, to coat, power, and memori storag. "i am a veri big believ in the evolut of thi industri into a pervas environ, in an incred network infrastructur," sai mr donofrio. pervas comput is where wireless comput rule, and where jewelleri, cloth, and everydai object becom the interfac instead of bulki wire, screen and keyboard. the net becom a true network that is taken for grant and just there, like air. "peopl will not have to do anyth to stai connect. peopl will know their live ar just better," sai mr donofrio. "trillion of devic will be connect to the net in wai peopl will not know." natur interfac will develop, devic will shape your persona, and our technolog underus voic could be tell our jewelleri to sort out the financ.

ultim, there will be, sai mr donofrio, no valu in be "comput illiter". to some, it sound like a technolog world gone mad. to mr donofrio, it is a vision innov that will happen. behind thi vision should be a rich robust network capabl and "deep comput", sai mr donofrio. deep comput is the abil to perform lot of complex calcul on massiv amount of data, and integr to thi concept is supercomput. it ha valu, accord to ibm, becaus it help human work out extrem complex problem to come up with valuabl solut, like how to refin million of net search result, find cure for diseas, or understand of exactli how a gene or protein oper.

but pervas comput presum mean have technolog that ar awar of divers of context, command, and requir of a divers world. as comput and technolog becom part of the environ, part of furnitur, wall, and cloth, physic space becom a more import consider.

thi is go to need a much broader rang of skill and experi. "i am confid that the set [scienc, engin and technolog] industri is go to be short on skill," he sai. "if i am right about what innov is, you need to be multidisciplinari and collabor. "women tend to have those trait a lot better than men." eventu, women could win out in both life and physic scienc, he sai. in the uk, a dti-fund resourc centr for women ha set a target to have 40% represent on set industri board. ibm, accord to mr donofrio, ha 30%. "our goal is for our research team to becom the prefer organis for women in scienc and technolog to begin their career." the whole issu of global divers is as much a busi matter as it is a moral and social concern to mr donofrio. "we believ in the whole issu of global divers," he sai. "our custom ar divers, our client ar divers. thei expect us to look like them. "as more and more women or underrepres minor succe into leadership posit, it becom and imper for us to constantli look like them."
