firefox browser take on microsoft

microsoft's internet explor ha a seriou rival in the long-await firefox 1.0 web browser, which ha just been releas.

few peopl get excit when some new softwar is releas, especi when the program is not a game or a music or movi player. but the releas of the first full version of firefox ha manag to drum up a respect amount of pre-launch fervour. fan of the softwar have band togeth to rais cash to pai for an advert in the new york time announc that version 1.0 of the browser is avail. the releas of firefox 1.0 on 9 novemb might even caus a few head to turn at microsoft becaus the program is steadili win peopl awai from the softwar giant's internet explor browser.

firefox ha been creat by the mozilla foundat which wa start by former browser maker netscap back in 1998. much of the develop work done sinc then ha gone into firefox which made it first appear under thi name in februari. earlier incarn, but which had the same core technolog, were call phoenix and firebird. sinc then the softwar ha been gain prais and convert, not least becaus of the larg number of secur problem that have come to light in microsoft's internet explor. rival to ie got a boost in late june when two us comput secur organis warn peopl to avoid the microsoft program to avoid fall victim to a seriou vulner.

internet monitor firm websidestori ha chart the grow popul of peopl us the firefox browser and sai it is respons for slowli erod the stranglehold of ie. befor juli thi year, accord to websidestori, internet explor wa us by about 95% of web surfer. that figur had remain static for year. in juli the ie us popul drop to 94.7% and by the end of octob stood at 92.9%. the mozilla foundat claim that firefox ha been download almost eight million time and ha publicli said it would be happi to garner 10% of the window- us, net-brows popul. firefox is prove popular becaus, at the moment, it ha far fewer secur hole than internet explor and ha some innov lack in microsoft's program. for instanc, firefox allow the page of differ websit to be arrang as tab so user can switch easili between them. it block pop-up, ha a neat wai of find text on a page and let you search through the page you have brows.

on of the most power featur of firefox is the mani hundr of extra, or extens, produc for it. the mozilla foundat is an open sourc organis which mean that the creator of the browser ar happi for other to plai around with the core code for the program. thi ha result in mani differ add-on or extens for the browser which now includ everyth from a version of the familiar googl toolbar to a homeland secur monitor that keep user awar of current threat level. firefox, which us to be call firebird and befor that phoenix, also ha a grow number of vocal net-base fan. a campaign co-ordin by the spread firefox websit attempt to rais the $50,000 need for a full page advert in the new york time. the campaign set itself a target of recruit 2500 volunt. ten dai in to the campaign 10,000 peopl had sign up and now about $250,000 ha been rais. the ad is due to run sometim in a three-week period in late novemb/earli decemb. the surplu cash will be us to help keep the mozilla foundat run. microsoft is face a grow challeng to ie's hold on the web us popul. from altern browser such as opera, safari, amaya and even netscap.
