halo fan' hope for sequel

xbox video game halo 2 ha been releas in the us on 9 novemb, with a uk releas two dai later. why is the game among the most anticip of all time?

halo is consid by mani video game pundit to be on of the finest exampl of interact entertain ever produc and more than 1.5 million peopl worldwid have pre-order the sequel. a scienc fiction epic, halo centr the action on a human cyborg, control by the player, who had to save hi crew from an alien hord after a crash land on a strang and exot world contain on the interior surfac of a giant ring in space. remembr of thing past it wa not - but as a slice of schlock scienc fiction inspir by work such as larri niven's ringworld and the film starship trooper, it fit the bill perfectli. halo stood out from a crowd of similar titl - it wa graphic impress, had tremend audio, us dolbi digit, a decent storylin, instant playabl and impress physic.

but what mark halo as a classic were the thousand of detail which brought a feel of polish and the enorm-high product valu not usual associ with video game.

produc by bungi softwar, renown for their innov in game, it caus a stir among the game fratern when the develop wa bought by microsoft and becam an xbox exclus. claud errera, editor of fansit halo.bungi.org, said: "bungi got everyth right. thei were realli care to make sure everyth work the wai it wa suppos to. "noth distract you when you were plai. there wa noth in halo that had not been done befor but everyth in there wa as good as it could be." he ad: "graphic it wa superior to everyth els out there.

"it also had a depth to it that made it stand out." halo wa unusu immers, suck the player into the action and blur the interfac between screen and control. it also capitalis on the grow popular of lan game in the pc world - for the first time it becam easi to link multipl game consol togeth, allow up to 16 player to battl against each other at the same time.

the game instantli cultiv an onlin follow, which continu todai with a score of halo fan websit follow everi aspect of the sequel, halo 2. errera spend three to four hour a dai of hi own time maintain the huge popular websit, which attract 600,000 page view a dai from halo fan eager for the latest new.

when the xbox launch on novemb 15 2001 in the us, halo wa on of the launch titl and had an immedi impact on critic and consum. "halo is the most import launch game for ani consol ever," wrote the influenti edg magazin in it review, give it a rare 10 out of 10 mark. the game had it critic and while it is not a on-off origin as a game, it brought mani origin touch and flourish to the genr which have defin all other first person shooter sinc. "the first time i plai it i just stood there watch the spent shell fall out of my gun," said errera, remark on the level of detail in the game.

the game also inspir thousand of peopl to write their own fiction base on the storylin and produc download video clip of the mani weird and wonder thing that can be done in the game. "it blew me awai the first time someon manag to climb to the top of halo," said errera, refer to a fan who had creat a video of master chief scale the landscap of the graphic world. video clip of the more outrag stunt that ar possibl thank to the game's amaz physic engin ar incred popular and some have attain a cult follow. specul about the sequel ha seen everi titbit analys and pour over with all the intent of a forens scientist examin a bodi. when earli screenshot of the game were releas some peopl wrote essai-length articl highlight everyth from the textur of graphic to clue about the stori line. errera said expect of the sequel among fan were sky high. "it doe not feel like a game releas ani more. somebodi told me thi wa the biggest singl releas of ani product in microsoft's histori. "we're all just hope that bungi ha got it right again."

halo 2 is out on 9 novemb in the us and 11 novemb in the uk
