player sought for $1m prize

uk gamer ar get a chanc to take part in a $1m tournament thank to on of the countri's top team.

the four-king clan is stage a pop idol type competit to find new member who can take on the world's best in the lucr tournament. four-king hope the open qualifi will turn up gamer good enough to beat all comer at the painkil game. top player also get a contract with the four-king team which will pai travel expens for the contest.

uk gamer have until 12 novemb to regist their interest in take part and can sign up via the four-king, jolt.co.uk and painkil tournament websit. philip wride, who co-manag the four-king team, said onlin qualifi will be held from 16-28 novemb to find the best eight player of the painkil game. he said the clan wa run the contest becaus four-king doe not current have ani player that excel at painkil. these eight player will be brought togeth in london on 3-5 decemb for the bloodlin tournament that will find the best two player.

the event will be film and the final cut made avail onlin for other to watch. the movi is be put togeth by simon byssh who ha shot mani other film about pro-game that have been wide share onlin. said mr byssh: "painkil is a new game and the opportun is there for a new player to step up." painkil ha been describ as a game that add a few modern touch, such as improv graphic, to the old-fashion first-person shooter. these two player will be put forward as the uk's entrant to the cyberathlet profession leagu $1m painkil contest that will take place throughout 2005. the event is be bill as the cpl world tour and will be arrang around ten separ tournament at differ locat around the world. travel expens to all the stop on the tour will be paid by four-king for the two uk player who make the grade. the top prize at each stop on the world tour will be $15,000. a further $150,000 will be given to the winner of the grand final due to be held in decemb 2005. mr wride said ani gamer that win a few tour stop tournament and the grand final will have a veri good year. the first stop on the world tour will be istanbul, turkei from 10-13 februari. a total of $50,000 in cash prize is on offer. the cpl ha said that it pick a on-on-on game such as painkil to make it easier for spectat to follow the action. counter-strike, by far the most popular onlin game, pit team against each other and can be confus to follow if those watch ar not familiar with the layout of the map on which it is plai. the decis to pick painkil wa greet with surpris by mani gamer, as it wa wide expect that doom 3 would be chosen as the on-on-on titl.
