us top of supercomput chart

the us ha push japan off the top of the supercomput chart with ibm's prototyp blue gene/l machin.

it is be assembl for the lawrenc livermor nation laboratori, under the us depart of energi. ibm test result show that blue gene/l ha manag speed of 70.72 teraflop. the previou top machin, japan's nec earth simul, clock up 35.86. the top 500 list wa announc on mondai and offici chart the fastest comput in the world.

it is announc everi six month and is work out us an offici recognis mathemat speed test call linpack which measur calcul per second.

onc complet in 2005, blue gene/l will be more power than it current prototyp. "next year with the final blue gene, four time what it is thi year, it is go to be a real step up and will be hard to beat," said erich strohmaier, on of the co-founder of the top500 list. it will help scientist work out the safeti, secur and reliabl requir for the us's nuclear weapon stockpil, without the need for underground nuclear test. it will also cut down on the amount of heat gener by the massiv power, a big problem for supercomput.

in second place wa silicon graphic' columbia supercomput base at the us space agenc's (nasa) am research center in california. the linux-base machin wa report to have reach a top speed of 42.7 trillion calcul per second (teraflop) in octob. it will be us to model flight mission, climat research, and aerospac engin. the defeat japanes contend, the earth simul, which wa list in third place, lose the top spot it had held sinc june 2002. it is dedic to climat model and simul seismic activ.

sinc the first supercomput, the crai-1, wa instal at lo alamo nation laboratori, us, in 1976, comput speed ha leap 500,000 time. the crai-1 wa capabl of 80 megaflop (80 million oper a second). the blue gene/l machin that will be complet next year will be five million time faster. start in 1993, the top 500 list is decid by a group of comput scienc academ from around the world. it is present at the intern supercomput confer in pittsburgh.
