text messag aid disast recoveri

text messag technolog wa a valuabl commun tool in the aftermath of the tsunami disast in asia.

the messag can get through even when the cell phone signal is too weak to sustain a spoken convers. now some ar studi how the technolog behind sm could be better us dure an emerg. sanjaya senanayak work for sri lankan televis. the blog world, though, might know him better by hi onlin name, morquendi. he wa on of the first on the scene after the tsunami destroi much of the sri lankan coast. cell phone signal were weak. land line were unreli. so mr senanayak start send out text messag. the messag were not just the latest new thei were also an on-the-ground assess of "who need what and where". blog friend in india took mr senanayak's text messag and post them on a weblog call dog without border. thousand around the world follow the stori that unfold in the text messag that he sent.

and that's when mr senanayak start to wonder if sm might be put to more practic us. "sm network can handl so much more traffic than the standard mobil phone call or the land line call," he sai.

"in everi rural commun, there's at least on person who ha access to a mobil phone, or ha a mobil phone, and can receiv messag." half a world awai, in the caribbean nation of trinidad and tobago, taran rampersad read morquendi's messag. mr rampersad, who us to work in the militari, knew how import on the ground commun can be in time of disast. he wonder if there might be a wai to automat centralis text messag, and then redistribut them to agenc and peopl who might be abl to help. mr rampersad said: "imagin if an aid worker in the field spot a need for water purif tablet, and had a central place to send a text messag to that effect. "he can messag the server, so the server can send out an e-mail messag and human or machin moder can e-mail aid agenc and get it out in the field." he ad: "or, send it at the same time to other peopl who ar us sm in the region, and thei might have an excess of it, and be abl to shift suppli to the right place."

mr rampersad and other had actual been think about such a system sinc hurrican ivan ravag the caribbean and the southern unit state last septemb. last week, he sent out e-mail messag ask for help in creat such a system for asia.

in onli 72 hour, he found dan lane, a text messag guru live in britain. the pair, along with a group of dedic techi, ar creat what thei call the alert retriev cach. the idea is to us open-sourc softwar - softwar can be us by anyon without commerci restraint - and a far-flung network of talent to creat a system that link those in need with those who can help. "thi is a classic smart mob situat where you have peopl self-organ into a larger enterpris to do thing that benefit other peopl," sai paul saffo, a director at the california-base institut for the futur. "you mai be halfwai around the world from someon, but in cyberspac you're just on click or on e-mail awai," he said, "that's put a whole new dimens on disast relief and recoveri, where often peopl halfwai around the world can be more effect in make someth happen precis becaus thei're not right on top of the tragedi." it is still veri earli dai for the project, though. in an e-mail, dan lane call it "an earli proof of concept." right now, the alert retriev cach can onli take a text messag and automat upload it to a web-page, or distribut it to an e-mail list. in the near futur, the group sai it hope to take in messag from peopl in affect area, and us human moder to take action base on the content of those messag. but there's still anoth challeng. you have to get peopl to know that the system is there for them to us. "it's amaz how difficult it is to find someon to pass it along to, and sai, look thi is what we're try to do and everyth like that," sai mr rampersad. "so the big problem right now is the same problem we're try to solv - human commun." he is optimist, howev. he think that the alert retriev cach is an idea whose time ha come and he hope govern, too, will sit up and take notic. and he stand by hi motto, courtesi of michelangelo: criticis by creat.

clark boyd is technolog correspond for the world, a bbc world servic and wgbh-boston co-product.
