put a face to 'big brother'

liter put a face on technolog could be on of the kei to improv our interact with hi-tech gadget.

imagin a surveil system that also present a virtual embodi of a person on a screen who can react to your behaviour, and perhap even alert you to new e-mail. basic version of these so-call avatar alreadi exist. togeth with speech and voic recognit system, thei could replac the keyboard and mous in the near futur. some of these idea have been showcas at the london's scienc museum, as part of it futur face exhibit.

on such avatar is jeremiah. it is a virtual man, which you can download for free and instal in your comput.

hi creator, richard bowden, lectur at the centr for vision, speech and signal process at the univers of surrei, refer to jeremiah as "him", rather than it. "jeremiah is a virtual face that attempt to emul human in the wai it respond to activ. he is veri childlik, he like visual stimulu," he told the bbc new websit. "when he see children run and laugh and wave at him, he smile at them. if you ignor him, he get angri. if you leav, he get sad. and you can also even surpris him." jeremiah is not actual intellig. it work on vision, react in a preset wai to the inform provid by a surveil tracker system. it is not abl to talk or to hear you, at least not yet. the surrei team is alreadi work on jeremiah's next version, that will replac the human face with an underwat and more interact creatur: finn the fish. "i am interest in the interact, provid the abil of a system to watch what's go on and make decis base on that," explain dr bowden.

the research come at a time when peopl ar have to cope with an increas number of hi-tech gadget.

expert sai a much more natur wai to interact with these devic, such as a virtual human, could make it much easier to make the most of all those new gizmo. "if you get up at three o'clock in the morn, and you go downstair, there ar probabl two thing you ar go to do: either go to the bathroom, or mayb you ar go to make a cup of tea," said dr bowden. "now if the system can watch your behaviour over time, it can learn thi, so it would predict what you ar go to do, turn on the light for you, or, befor you even get to the kettl, it could have switch it on." you might even be abl to tell your home surveil system that you will be go awai on holidai, and ask if it could make sure that the hous is secur onc you have left. thi might sound like a scari vision of an orwellian futur. but it might all depend on the face that is watch you. "when we put the surveil camera in our centr, a lot of peopl were veri unhappi about the fact that there wa a system watch them," said dr bowden. "but when jeremiah's camera went in, nobodi mind, becaus although it's still watch them, thei could see what it wa watch."
