footbal manag score big time

for the past decad or so the virtual footbal fan among us will have becom us to the annual help of championship manag (cm). inde, it seem like there ha been a cm game for as mani year as there have been pc.

howev, last year wa the final time that develop sport interact (si) and publish eido would work togeth. thei decid to go their separ wai, and each kept a piec of the franchis. si kept the game's code and databas, and eido retain right to the cm brand, and the look and feel of the game. so at the begin of thi year, fan face a new situat. eido announc the next cm game, with a new team to develop it from scratch, whilst si develop the exist code further to be releas, with new publish sega, under the name footbal manag. so what doe thi mean? well, footbal manag is the spiritu successor to the cm seri, and it ha been releas earlier than expect. at thi point cm5 look like it will ship earli next year. but given that footbal manag 2005 is by and larg the game that everybodi know and love, how doe thi new version shape up?

a game like fm2005 could blind you with statist. it ha an obscen number of playabl leagu, an obscen number of manag team and a realli obscen number of player and staff from around the world in the databas, with stat faithfulli research and compil by a loyal armi of fan. but that doe not do justic to the game realli. what we ar talk about is the most realist and satisfi footbal manag game to ever grace the earth.

you begin by pick the nation and leagu you want to manag team from, for instanc england and scotland. that will give you a choic not just of the four main scottish leagu, but the english premiership all the wai down to the confer north and south. of cours you might be look for european glori, or to get hold of abramovich's million, in which case you can take control at chelsea, or even barcelona, real madrid, ac milan ... the list goe on a veri long wai. onc in a team you will be told by the board what thei expect of you. sometim it is promot, or a place in europ, sometim it is consolid or a brave releg battl. it might even be a case of champion or els. obvious the expect ar link to the team you choos, so choos wise. then it is time to look at your squad, work out your tactic, see how much cash, if ani, you have got to splash, have a look at the transfer market, sort out the train schedul and make sure your backroom staff ar up to it. then bring on the match, which ar onc more avail in the ever-improv top down 2d view. with the except of the improv user interfac on the surfac, not much els seem to have chang.

howev, there have been a lot of chang under the bonnet as well - thing like the manag mind-game, which let you talk to the media about the opposit boss. the match engin is also much improv, and it is more of a joi than ever to watch. in fact just about everi area of the game ha been tweak, and it lead to an ever more immers experi.

with a game that is so complex and so open-end, there ar of cours a few glitch, but nowher near the sort of problem that have blight previou releas. with so mani calcul to perform the game can take some time to process in between match, though there have been improv in thi area. and a sport like footbal, which is so high profil and unpredict itself, can never be model quit to everybodi's satisfact. but thi time around a great deal of hard work ha been put in to ensur that ani odditi that do crop up ar cosmet onli, and do not affect gameplai. and if there ar problem further down the line, sport interact have indic their usual willing to support and develop the game as far as possibl. in all there ar mani more tweak and improv. if you were a fan of the previou cm game, then fm2005 might make you forget there wa anyth els befor it. if you ar new to the genr but like the idea of try to take margat into the premiership, spur into europ, or even put ranger back on the top of the tree, fm2005 could be the best purchas you ever made. just be warn that the famili might not see you much at christma.

footbal manag 2005 out now for the pc and the mac
