musician 'upbeat' about the net

musician ar embrac the internet as a wai of reach new fan and sell more music, a survei ha found.

the studi by us research, pew internet, suggest musician do not agre with the tactic adopt by the music industri against file-share. while most consid file-share as illeg, mani disagre with the lawsuit launch against download. "even success artist don't think the lawsuit will benefit musician," said report author mari madden.

for part of the studi, pew internet conduct an onlin survei of 2,755 musician, songwrit and music publish via musician membership organis between march and april 2004.

thei rang from full-time, success musician to artist struggl to make a live from their music. "we look at more of the independ musician, rather than the rockstar of thi industri but that reflect more accur the state of the music industri," ms madden told the bbc new websit. "we alwai hear the view of success artist like the britnei of the world but the less success artist rare get repres." the survei found that musician were overwhelm posit about the internet, rather than see it as just a threat to their livelihood. almost all of them us the net for idea and inspir, with nine out of 10 go onlin to promot, advertis and post their music on the web. more than 80% offer free sampl onlin, while two-third sold their music via the net. independ musician, in particular, saw the internet as a wai to get around the need to land a record contract and reach fan directli. "musician ar embrac the internet enthusiast," said ms madden. "thei ar us the internet to gain inspir, sell it onlin, track royalti, learn about copyright."

perhap surprisingli, opinion about onlin file-share were divers and not as clear cut as those of the record industri.

through the record industri associ of america (riaa), it ha pursu an aggress campaign through the court to sue peopl suspect of share copyright music. but the report suggest thi campaign doe not have the wholeheart back of musician in the us. it found that most artist saw file-share as both good and bad, though most agre that it should be illeg. "free download ha kill opportun for new band to break without major fund and back," said on musician quot by the report. "it's hard to keep make record if thei don't pai for themselv through sale." howev 60% said thei did not think the lawsuit against song swapper would benefit musician and songwrit. mani suggest that rather than fight file-share, the music industri need to recognis the chang it ha brought and embrac it. "both success and struggl musician were more like to sai that the internet ha made it possibl for them to make more monei from their music, rather than make it harder for them to protect their materi from piraci," said ms madden.
