broadband take on tv view

the number of european with broadband ha explod over the past 12 month, with the web eat into tv view habit, research suggest.

just over 54 million peopl ar hook up to the net via broadband, up from 34 million a year ago, accord to market analyst nielsen/netrat. the total number of peopl onlin in europ ha broken the 100 million mark. the popular of the net ha meant that mani ar turn awai from tv, sai analyst jupit research. it found that a quarter of web user said thei spent less time watch tv in favour of the net

the report by nielsen/netrat found that the number of peopl with fast internet access had risen by 60% over the past year.

the biggest jump wa in itali, where it rose by 120%. britain wa close behind, with broadband user almost doubl in a year. the growth ha been fuell by lower price and a wider choic of alwai-on, fast-net subscript plan. "twelv month ago high speed internet user made up just over on third of the audienc in europ; now thei ar more than 50% and we expect thi number to keep grow," said gabriel prior, nielsen/netrat analyst. "as the number of high-speed surfer grow, websit will need to adapt, updat and enhanc their content to retain their visitor and encourag new on." the total number of european onlin rose by 12% to 100 million over the past year, the report show, with the biggest rise in franc, itali, britain and germani.

the abil to brows web page at high speed, download file such as music or film and plai onlin game is chang what peopl do in their spare time.

a studi by analyst jupit research suggest that broadband wa challeng televis view habit. in home with broadband, 40% said thei were spend less time watch tv. the threat to tv wa greatest in countri where broadband wa on the up, in particular the uk, franc and spain, said the report. it said tv compani face a major long-term threat over the next five year, with broadband predict to grow from 19% to 37% of household by 2009. "year-on-year we ar continu to see a seismic shift in where, when and how europ's popul consum media for inform and entertain and thi ha big implic for tv, newspap and radio," said jupit research analyst olivi beauvillian.
