freez on anti-spam campaign

a campaign by lyco europ to target spam-relat websit appear to have been put on hold.

earlier thi week the compani releas a screensav that bombard the site with data to try to bump up the run cost of the websit. but the site host the screensav now displai a pink graphic and the word "stai tune". no on at lyco wa avail for comment on latest develop in it controversi anti-spam campaign.

lyco europ's "make love not spam" campaign wa intend as a wai for user to fight back against the mountain of junk mail flood inbox. peopl were encourag to download the screensav which, when their pc wa idl, would then send lot of data to site that peddl the good and servic mention in spam messag. lyco said the idea wa to get the spam site run at 95% capac and gener big bandwidth bill for the spammer behind the site. but the plan ha prove controversi.

monitor firm netcraft analys respons time for some of the site target by the screensav and found that a number were complet knock offlin.

the down of the site could dent lyco claim that what it is do doe not amount to a distribut denial of servic attack. in such attack thousand of comput bombard site with data in an attempt to overwhelm them. law in mani countri do not explicitli outlaw such attack but mani nation ar re-draft comput us law to make them specif offenc. lyco europ now appear to have put the plan on hold. the site host the screensav current show a hold page, with the word, "stai tune". the numer internet address of the site ha also chang. thi is like to be in respons to spammer who have reportedli redirect traffic from their site back to the lyco screensav site. the campaign ha come under fire from some corner of the web. mani discuss group have said that it set a danger preced and could incit vigilant. "attack a spammer's websit is like poke a grizzli bear sleep in your back garden with a pointi stick," said graham clulei, senior technolog consult for sopho. "not onli is thi screensav similar in it approach to a potenti illeg distribut denial of servic attack, but it also is in danger of turn innoc comput user into vigilant, who mai not be prepar for whatev retali the spammer care to dream up."
