'blog' pick as word of the year

the term "blog" ha been chosen as the top word of 2004 by a us dictionari publish.

merriam-webster said "blog" head the list of most look-up term on it site dure the last twelv month. dure 2004 blog, or web log, have becom huge popular and some have start to influenc mainstream media. other word on the merriam-webster list were associ with major new event such as the us presidenti elect or natur disast that hit the us.

merriam-webster defin a blog as: "a web site that contain an onlin person journal with reflect, comment and often hyperlink". it list of most look-up word is drawn up everi year and it discount term such as swear word, that everyon like to look up, or those that alwai caus problem, such as "affect" and "effect".

merriam-webster said "blog" wa the word that peopl have ask to be defin or explain most often over the last 12 month. the word will now appear in the 2005 version of merriam-webster's print dictionari. howev, the word is alreadi includ in some print version of the oxford english dictionari. a spokesman for the oxford univers press said that the word wa now be put into other dictionari for children and learner, reflect it mainstream us. "i think it wa the word of last year rather than thi year," he said. "now we're get word that deriv from it such as 'blogospher' and so on," he said. "but," he ad, "it's a pretti recent thing and in the wai that thi happen these dai it's got establish veri quickli."

blog come in mani differ form. mani act as new site for particular group or subject, some ar written from a particular polit slant and other ar simpli list of interest site. other term in the top 10 were relat to natur disast that have struck the us, such as "hurrican" or were to do with the us elect. word such as "incumb", "elector" and "partisan" reflect the scale of interest in the vote. blog also prove veri us to both side in the us elect battl becaus mani pundit who maintain their own journal were abl to air opinion that would never appear in more mainstream media. specul that presid bush wa get help dure debat via a listen devic wa first air on web log. onlin journal also rais doubt about document us by us televis new organis cb in a stori about presid bush's war record. the immediaci of mani blog also help some wield influenc over topic that made it in to nation press.

thi is despit the fact that the number of peopl read even the most influenti blog is tini. statist by web influenc rank firm hitwis reveal that the most popular polit blog rack up onli 0.0051% of all net visit per dai. on of the reason that blog and regularli updat onlin journal have becom popular is becaus the softwar us to put them togeth make it veri easi for peopl to air their view onlin. accord to blog analysi firm technorati the number of blog in exist, the blogospher, ha doubl everi five and a half month for the last 18 month. technorati now estim that the number of blog in exist ha exceed 4.8 million. some specul that less than a quarter of thi number ar regularli maintain. accord to us research firm pew internet & american life a blog is creat everi 5.8 second. anoth trend thi year ha been the increas number of weblog that detail the daili live of mani ordinari worker in job that few peopl know much about. in mani repress regim and develop nation, blog have been embrac by million of peopl keen to give their plight a voic.
