ds aim to touch gamer

the mobil game industri is set to explod in 2005 with a number of high-profil devic offer a rang of game and other featur such as movi and music playback. market leader nintendo, howev, is releas a handheld consol that it sai will revolutionis the wai game ar plai.

the first strike thing about the ds is how retro it look. far from look like a mould-break handheld, it look more like nintendo dug out a mould from a 1980s handheld prototyp. the lightweight clam shell devic open up to reveal two screen, and when switch on it instantli reveal it pedigre. both screen ar crisp and clear while the bottom of the two is touch sensit. nintendo ha given develop free rein to utilis the dual screen and abil to control the action by simpli touch the screen.

the japanes game giant hope the ds will maintain the firm's pre-emin in an increasingli-competit mobil game market.

nintendo first launch it gameboi consol in 1989 and ha domin the market ever sinc. but it lead can no longer be taken for grant. soni will enter the market later thi year with it playstat portabl, while start-up compani gizmondo and tapwav zodiac ar also offer hybrid devic. "we believ the ds will appeal to all ag, both gender and gamer of ani skill," said david yarnton, nintendo europ's gener manag said at the recent press launch for the handheld. with it two screen, wireless connect and backward compat with the gameboi advanc, the ds certainli ha a number of uniqu sell point. it went on sale in the us in mid-novemb price $150 and nintendo sai sale have exceed expect, without give detail figur. japan and europ will have to wait until the first quarter of 2005 to get the devic. with more than two million pre-order for the devic in japan, nintendo is confid it will keep it number on spot. but will the devic prove to be as revolutionari as claim? the game ship with a demo of metroid hunter - a 3d action titl which can be plai alon or with a group of friend us the machin's wireless capabl. it certainli look impress on the small machin and plai smoothli even with a group of peopl.

the game can be control by us the suppli stylu to aim. the top screen is us to navig the action while the bottom screen offer a top-down map and the abil to switch weapon. it is certainli a uniqu control method and while it make aim more control it can be a littl disorient. super mario 64 ds is a faith re-creation of the nintendo 64 classic with a host of new mini-game and new level. the game look stun on the portabl machin and the sound too is impress for such a small machin. on thing is for certain. harden gamer will have to learn to adapt to a new wai of plai while it could prove to be an access wai in to game for novic, ultim the success or failur of the devic li in the hand of develop. if thei manag to creat titl which us the nintendo ds's kei featur then a whole new market of gamer could open up. the fear is that the touch screen and voic recognit ar treat as littl more than gimmick.
