no half measur with half-life 2

could half-life 2 possibl live up to the hype? after almost two year of tantalis preview and infuri delai it's safe to sai that thi is the most highli-anticip comput game of all time.

fortun, it doesn't mere live up to it promis, but exce it. no-on who plai the finish product will wonder why it took so long. the impress is of a game that ha been endlessli refin to get as close to perfect as could realist be hope. all the monei - or inde time - is on the screen. the player see thing through the ey of gordon freeman, the bespectacl scientist who star in the origin 1998 half-life. have surviv that skirmish in an desol monster-infest research facil, he's back in anoth forebod troublespot - the enigmat citi 17. it ha the look of a beauti eastern european citi, but as soon as your train pull in to the station, it's clear that all is not well here. sinist polic patrol the unkempt street, and the oppress atmospher clobber you like a sledgehamm. a casual smatter of the nightmarish creatur from the first game make thi an even less pleasant place to be.

you ar herd around like a prison and have to mingl with a few freedom-fight civilian to gather inform and progress in your task. it is not immedi explain what your object ar, nor precis why everyth is so ravag. find out step-by-step is all part of the experi, although you never fulli get to understand what it wa all about. that doe not realli matter. hl2 doe not wast energi blind you with plot. underplai the narr in thi wai is glorious effect, and immers the player in the most vivid, convinc and impress virtual world thei ar like to have seen. there ar no cut-scene to interrupt the flow. exposit is accomplish by other charact stop to talk directli to you.

wherea the highli impress doom iii felt like a top-notch theme park thrill-ride, wander through half-life's world truli doe feel like be part of a movi.

consid it sophist, the game run surprisingli well on comput that onli just match the modest minimum specif. but if ever there wa an incent to upgrad your pc's compon, thi is it. on our test machin - an alienwar system with an athlon 3500+ processor and ati's radeon x800 video card - everyth ran at full qualiti without troubl, and the visual experi wa simpli jaw-drop. it is not simpli that the surfac, textur and light effect push the technic envelop without merci, but that such care and artist flair ha gone into design them. the haunt, grim landscap becom strang beauti. luckili you get time to paus mid-task and marvel at the awesom graphic flourish of your surround. so impress ar the physic that you'll find yourself hurl bit of rubbish around and prod float corps just to marvel at the lifelik wai thei move. there ar puzzl to be solv along the wai, pitch at about the right difficulti, but most progress is achiev by forc. freeman is quickli reunit with the origin game's famou crowbar, and an arrai of more sophist weapon soon follow.

virtual anyth not nail to the floor can be interact with, and in realist fashion. you will be wow by the attent-to-detail as you chip bit of plaster off wall, chase a pigeon out of your wai, or dodg explod barrel as thei ping around at deadli speed. at time half-life 2 feel like on of those annoi peopl who ar unfeas brilliant at everyth thei turn their hand to, and in a curiou wai, it unrel good actual becom almost tiresom. run around on foot is great enough, but jump into vehicl prove even more fun. human foe ar render just as well as alien on. the stealth section ar as exhilar as the open gun battl. in gameplai term, hl2 somehow get almost everyth perfect. and without resort to the zombi-leap-out-of-shadow approach of doom iii, it's all incred unsettl. the vacant environ is distinctli eeri, and at on point i even caught myself hesit to go down a murki tunnel for fear of what might be insid.

the game doe have a coupl of problem. firstli, the carefulli-script wai that you progress through each level might irk some peopl.

a lot of thing ar meticul choreograph to happen on cue, which make for excit moment, but mai be an annoy to some player and limit the appeal of plai again onc you've complet it. if you like thing open-end and free-rang, far cry will be a lot more pleas. but the real downsid is the hassl of get the game to run. instal it prove a life-drain sieg that would test a saint's patienc. develop valv ha rashli assum that everyon want to plai the game will have an internet connect and it forc you to go onlin to authent your copi. the box doe warn you of thi anti-piraci measur, but doe not sai just how mani compon have to be download. the time spent do thi will depend on your connect speed, the temperament valv server and the time of dai, but it can take hour. it would take a mighti piec of work to feel worthwhil after such annoy - but luckili, half-life 2 is up to the challeng. it is sure the best thing in it genr, and possibl, mani will feel, of ani genr. the bar ha been rais, and so far out of sight that you have to sympathis with ani game that tri to do anyth remot similar in the near futur.

half-life 2 is out now for the pc
