game win for blu-rai dvd format

the next-gener dvd format blu-rai is win more support than it rival, accord to it backer.

blu-rai, back by 100 firm includ soni, is compet against toshiba and nec-back hd-dvd to be the format of choic for futur film and game. the blu-rai associ said on thursdai that game giant electron art and vivendi would both support it dvd format. the next gener of dvd will hold high-definit video and sound. thi offer incred 3d-like qualiti of pictur which major hollywood studio and game publish ar extrem keen to exploit in the come year. in a separ press confer at the consum electron show in la vega, toshiba announc that dvd player for it technolog would be on the market by the end of 2005.

"as we move from standard definit video imag to high-definit imag, we have a much greater need for storag," richard doherti, from panason's hollywood laboratori, on of the pioneer of blu-rai, told the bbc new websit. "so by utilis blue laser-base technolog we can make an optic laser disc that can hold six time as much as todai's dvd." a blu-rai disc will be abl to store 50gb of high-qualiti data, while toshiba's hd-dvd will hold 30gb. mr doherti ad that it wa make sure the disc could satisfi all high-definit need, includ the abil to record onto the dvd and smaller disc to fit into camcord. both toshiba and blu-rai ar hope that the emerg dvd format war, akin to the betamax and vh fight in the 1980s, can be resolv over the next year when next-gener dvd player start to come out. when player do come out, thei will be abl to plai standard dvd too, which is good new for those who have huge librari of current dvd.

but the support from vivendi and electron art is a big boost to blu-rai in the battl for supremaci.

game is a $20 billion industri worldwid, so is as crucial as the film industri in term of monei to be made. "the technic requir for game develop todai demand more advanc optic-disc technolog," said michael heilmann, chief technolog offic for vivendi univers. "blu-rai offer the capac, perform and high-speed internet connect to take us into the futur of game." ea, a lead game develop and publish, ad that the deliveri of high-definit game of the futur wa vital and blu-rai had the capac, function and interact need for the kind of project it wa plan. soni recent announc it would be us the technolog in it next gener of playstat. mr doherti said gamer were "raven" for high-qualiti graphic and technolog for the next gener of titl. "gamer, especi those work on pc, ar alwai focus on more capac to deliv textur, deeper level, for deliv higher-resolut playback."

he ad: "the focu for game move forward on increas immers.

"game compani realli like to focu on creat a world which involv creat complic 3d model and textur and increas the resolut, increas the frame rate - all of these ar part of get a more immers experi." fit these model on current dvd technolog mean compress the graphic so much that much of thi qualiti is lost. as game move to more photo-real capabl, the current technolog is limit. "thei ar thrill at the advanc capac to start to build these immers environ," said mr doherti. current, graphic-intens pc game also requir multipl disc for instal. high-definit dvd will cut down on that need. likewis, consol reli on singl disc, so dvd that can hold six time more data mean much better, high-resolut game. blu-rai ha alreadi won back from major hollywood studio, such as mgm studio, disnei, and buena vista, as well as top technolog firm like dell, lg, samsung and phillip amongst other. while toshiba's hd-dvd technolog ha won back from paramount, univers and warner bro. "the real world benefit (of hd-dvd) ar appar and obviou," said jim cardwel, presid of warner home video. mr cardwel ad that rapid time to market and depend were signific factor in choos to go with hd-dvd. both format ar court microsoft to be the format of choic for the next gener xbox, but discuss ar still on-go. next gener dvd will also be abl to store imag and other data. ce is the largest consum electron show in the world, and run from 6 to 9 januari.
