onlin game plai with polit

after bubbl under for some time, onlin game broke through onto the polit arena in 2004.

the us presidenti elect provid a showcas for mani, aim at talk directli to a gener that ha grown up with joystick and gamepad. expert sai thi reflect how video game ar becom a mainstream part of cultur and societi. the first offici polit campaign game wa technic launch dure the last week of 2003: the iowa game, commiss by the democrat hope howard dean. more than 20 follow suit, includ frontrunn, elect, presid forev and the polit machin, which allow player to run an entir presidenti campaign, includ have to cope with the media. other help rais the stake dure the bush/kerri contest by highlight a candid's virtu or hi vice.

the phenomenon ha astonish the forefath of polit game, a hand of multi-disciplin game enthusiast keen to push frontier.

"when i start research polit game at the univers, about five year ago, i thought it wa go to be someth that would take decad to happen," said gonzalo frasca, comput game specialist at the inform technolog univers of copenhagen. "i must admit that i wa the first person to be surpris at see how fast thei have evolv," ad the uruguayan-born research, who ha so far creat game for two polit campaign. mani artist and design ar experi with thi form of game with an agenda in project such as newsgam.com. the aim is to comment on intern new event via game.

the abil of game to simul realiti make them a power model tool to interact with actual situat in an origin wai.

"video game gener strong reaction mainli becaus thei ar new, but also becaus our cultur need to learn how to deal with simul," mr frasca told the bbc new websit. thi wa the case with the on he creat for a polit parti in uruguai, cambiemo, an onlin puzzl game that offer a view on how the countri's problem could be solv by work togeth. "it's up to us to explor what we can learn from ourselv through plai and video game." ultim, dr frasca see game as a small laboratori where we can plai with our hope, fear and belief. "children learn a lot about the world through plai. there is no reason why we adult should stop do it as we grow up."

but expert estim it will still take at least about a decad until thi new breed of video game commun becom a common tool for polit campaign.

thi is hardli surpris, compar to other form of mass media like the worldwid web. onli a few year ago, most politician did not have a webpag, while now it is almost a must-have. dr frasca said: "polit campaign will continu to experi with video game. thei repres a new tool of commun that can reach a younger audienc in a languag that can clearli speak to them." "it will not replac other form of polit propaganda, but it will integr itself on to the media ecolog of polit campaign."
