when technolog get person

in 2020, whip out your mobil phone to make a call will be quaintli pass&#233;. by then phone will be print directli on to wrist, or other part of the bodi, sai ian pearson, bt's resid futurologist.

it's all part of what's known as a "pervas ambient world", where "chip ar everywher". mr pearson doe not have a crystal ball. hi job is to formul idea base on what scienc and technolog ar do now, to guid industri into the futur. inanim object will start to interact with us: we will be surround - on street, in home, in applianc, on our bodi and possibl in our head - by thing that "think". forget local area network - these will be bodi area network. idea about just how smart, small, or even invis, technolog will get ar alwai float around. imag of devic clumsili bolt on to head or wrist have pervad think about futur technolog. but now a new vision is surfac, where smart fabric and textil will be exploit to enhanc function, form, or aesthet. such materi ar alreadi start to chang how gadget and electron ar us and design.

so mp3 player - the mass gadget of the moment - will disappear and instead becom integr into on's cloth, sai mr pearson. "so the gadget that fill up your handbag, when we integr those into fabric, we can actual get rid of all that stuff. you won't necessarili see the electron." wearabl technolog could exploit bodi heat to charg it up, while "video tattoo", or intellig electron contact lens, might function as tv screen for those on the move. howev, thi futur of highli person devic, where technolog is worn, or even fuse with the bodi itself, rais ethic question. if technolog is go to be increasingli part of cloth, jewelleri, and skin, there need to be some seriou think about what it mean for us as human, sai baro susan greenfield. at a recent confer for technolog, engin, academ and fashion industri expert, at the royal societi in london, neuroscientist baro greenfield caution we "can't just sleepwalk into the futur".

yet thi technolog is alreadi upon us. research have develop comput and sensor worn in cloth. mp3 jacket, base on the idea that electr conduct fabric can connect to keyboard sewn into sleev, have alreadi appear in shop.

these "smart fabric" have come about through advanc in nano- and micro-engin - the abil to manipul and exploit materi at micro or molecular scale. at the nanoscal, materi can be "tune" to displai unusu properti that can be exploit to build faster, lighter, stronger and more effici devic and system. the textil and cloth industri ha been on of the first to exploit nanotechnolog in quit straightforward wai. mani develop ar appear in real product in the field of medicin, defenc, healthcar, sport, and commun. profession swim suit reduc drag by incorpor tini structur similar to shark skin. nanoscal titanium dioxid (tio2) coat give fabric antibacteri and anti-odour properti. these have special properti which can be activ in contact with the air or uv light. such coat have alreadi been us to stop sock smell for instanc, to turn airlin seat into super stain-resist surfac, and appli to window so thei clean themselv. dress for wound can now incorpor nanoparticl with biocid properti and smart patch ar be develop to deliv drug through the skin. but baro greenfield is concern about how far thi more person contact with technolog might affect our veri be. if our cloth, skin, and "person bodi network" do the talk and the monitor, everywher we go, we have to think about what that mean for our concept of privaci. mr pearson pick up the theme, point out there ar a lot of issu human have to iron out befor we becom "cyborgian". hi main concern is "privaci". "we ar look at electron which ar realli in deep contact with your bodi and a lot of that inform you realli don't want everi passer-by to know. "so we have to make sure we build secur in thi. if you ar wear smart make-up, where electron ar control the appear, you don't want peopl hack in and write messag on your forehead." as technolog infiltr our biologi, how will our brain function differ? "we cannot arrogantli assum that the human brain will not chang with thi," warn baro greenfield. there have alreadi been success experi to grow human nerv cell on circuit board. thi pave the wai for brain implant to help paralys peopl interfac directli with comput. clearli, the organ, carbon of our bodi and silicon is increasingli merg. the cyborg - a veri familiar part-human, part-inorgan scienc fiction and academ idea - is on it wai.
