who do you think you ar?

the real danger is not what happen to your data as it cross the net, argu analyst bill thompson. it is what happen when it arriv at the other end.

the financi servic author ha warn bank and other financi institut that member of crimin gang mai be appli for job which give them access to confidenti custom data. the fear is not that thei will steal monei from our bank account but that thei will instead steal someth far more valuabl in our digit societi - our ident. arm with the person detail that a bank hold, plu a fake letter or two, it is appar easi to get a loan, open a bank account with an overdraft or get a credit card in someon els's name. and it is then a simpl matter to move the monei into anoth account and leav the unwit victim to sort out the mess when statement and demand for payment start arriv. ident theft is an increasingli signific econom crime, and we ar all becom more awar of the danger of leav bill, receipt and bank statement unshred in our rubbish.

but, howev care you mai be, if the organis you trust with your person data, bank account and credit card ar not abl to look after their databas properli then you ar in troubl. it is surpris that it ha taken the gang so long to realis that a well-place insid is by far the simplest wai to break the secur of a comput system. in fact, i suspect that the fsa is probabl veri late to thi particular parti and that thi sort of thing ha been go on for rather a long time. ha anyon check bob cratchit's famili link to the crimin underworld, i wonder? and it is hardli like to be onli bank that ar be target. health author, govern agenc and of cours the big e-commerc site like amazon must also offer rich pick for the fraudster. the good new is that better audit is like to catch out those who access account detail that thei ar not suppos to. and as we all becom awar of the danger of ident theft and look more carefulli for unexpect transact on our statement, bank should have good enough record and log to trace the peopl who might have access the account detail. fortun there ar now wai to keep bank system more secur from the sort of data theft that involv take a portabl hard drive or flash memori card into the offic, plug it into a usb slot and suck down custom file.

compani like securewav, for exampl, can restrict the us of usb port just to authoris devic or even to an individu's person memori card. these solut ar not perfect, but it doe not feel like a wave of fraud is about to wash awai the entir financi system. howev the warn doe highlight on of the major issu with e-commerc and onlin trade - the secur or otherwis of the server and other system that make up the 'back offic'. it ha been clear for year that the real danger in pai for good onlin with a credit card is not that the number will be intercept in transit but that the shop you ar deal with will be hack.

in fact i do not know of a singl case where an e-mail contain payment detail ha led to card fraud.

there ar simpli too mani e-mail pass over the net for intercept to be a sensibl tool for anyon out to commit fraud. cd univers, powergen and mani other compani have left their databas open and suffer the consequ. and just last week the onlin bank cahoot admit that it custom account detail could be read by anyon who could guess a login name. whether it is extern hacker break in becaus of poor system secur or intern staff abus the access thei get as part of their job, the issu is the same: how do we make sure that our person data is not abus? ani organis that process person data is, of cours, bound by the data protect act and must take proper care of it. unauthoris disclosur is not allow, but the penalti ar small and the process of prosecut under the act so convolut as to be worthless in practic. thi is not someth we can just leav it to the market. the consequ of have on's ident stolen ar too seriou, and market respond too slowli. after all, i bank with cahoot but it would be so much hassl to move my account that i did not even consid it when i heard about their secur problem. i doubt mani other have close their account, especi when there is littl guarante that other bank ar not go to make the same sort of mistak in futur. the two option would seem to be more stringent data protect law, so that compani realli feel the pressur to improv their intern process, or a wave of civil lawsuit against financi institut with sloppi practic whose custom suffer from ident theft. i have never felt comfort with the us practic of su everyth that move, partli becaus it seem to make lawyer richer than their client, so i know which i'd prefer.

bill thompson is a regular comment on the bbc world servic programm go digit.
