europ back digit tv lifestyl

how peopl receiv their digit entertain in the futur could chang, follow the launch of an ambiti european project.

in nice last week, the european commiss announc it network & electron media (nem) initi. it broad scope stretch from the wai media is creat, through each of the stage of it distribut, to it playback. the commiss want peopl to be abl to locat the content thei desir and have it deliv seamlessli, when on the move, at home or at work, no matter who suppli the devic, network, content, or content protect scheme. more than 120 expert were in nice to share the vision of interconnect futur and hear pledg of support from compani such as nokia, intel, philip, alcatel, franc telecom, thomson and telefonica. it might initi appear to be surpris that compani in direct competit ar keen to work togeth. but again and again, speaker state thei could not see incompat, stand-alon solut work. a long-term strategi for the evolut and converg of technolog and servic would be requir.

the european commiss is be pragmat in it approach. thei have identifi that mani group have defin the form of digit media in the area that nem encompass. the nem approach is to take a seriou look at what is avail and what is in the pipelin, pick out the best, bring them togeth and identifi where the gap ar. where it find hole, it will develop standard to fill them. what is signific is that such a larg and power organis ha state it desir for digit format to be open to all and work on ani gadget. thi is bound to pleas, if not surpris, mani individu and user organis who feel that the wish of the holder of right to content ar normal consid over and abov those of the consum. mani feel that the most difficult and challeng area for the commiss will be to identifi a solut for differ digit right manag (drm) scheme. current drm solut ar incompat, lock certain type of purchas content, make them unplay on all platform. with the potenti of have a percentag of everi media transact that take place global, the prize for be the supplier of the world's domin drm scheme is huge. although entertain is an obviou first step, it will encompass the remot provis of healthcar, energi effici and control of the smart home. the 10-year plan bring togeth the work of mani current run research project that the ec ha been fund for a number of year.

simon perri is the editor of the digit lifestyl websit, which cover the impact of technolog on media
