casual game to 'take off'

game aim at "casual player" ar set to be even bigger in 2005, accord to industri expert.

easi-to-plai titl that do not requir too much time and that ar playabl onlin or download to mobil devic will see real growth in the come year. the trend show that game is not just about big-hit, game consol titl, which appeal more to "hardcor" gamer, said a panel of expert. thei were speak befor the annual consum electron show in la vega which showcas the latest trend in gadget and technolog for 2005. the panel also insist that casual gamer were not just women, a common misconcept which pervad current think about gamer demograph.

casual game like poker, pool, bridg, bingo and puzzl-base titl, which can be plai onlin or download onto mobil devic, were "gender neutral" and differ genr attract differ player.

greg mill, program director at aol, said it figur suggest that sport-base game attract 90% of 18 to 24-year-old male, while puzzl game were plai by 80% of femal. game like bridg tend to attract the over-50 demograph of gamer.

but hardcor gamer who ar more attract to blockbust gamer which usual requir hi-spec pc, like half-life 2, or halo 2 on xbox, also like to have a differ type of game experi. "when hardcor gamer ar not plai halo, thei ar plai poker and pool, base on our research," said geoff graber, director of yahoo game, which attract about 12 million gamer a month.

with the growth of power pc technolog and ownership, broadband take-up, portabl player and mobil devic, as well as interact tv, casual game is shape up to be big busi in 2005, accord to the panel. the focu for the come year should be about attract third-parti develop into the field to offer more innov and multiplay titl, thei agre. "we ar at a time where we ar on the verg of someth much bigger," said mr graber. "casual game will get into their stride in 2005, will be realli big in 2006 and will be about commun." with more peopl find more to do with their gadget and high-speed connect, casual game would start to open up the world of game as a form of mass-market entertain to more peopl. kei to these type of titl is the chanc thei give peopl who mai not see themselv as gamer to dip in and out of game when thei like.

portal site which offer casual game, like aol, yahoo, and realarcad, as well as other game-on-demand servic, allow peopl to build up buddi list so thei can return and plai against the same peopl. thi aspect of "commun" is crucial for gamer who just want to have quick access to free or cheap game without commit long period of time immers in £30 to £40 consol or pc titl, said the panel. about 120,000 peopl ar expect to attend the ce trade show which stretch over more than 1.5 million squar feet and which offici run from 6 to 9 januari. the main theme is how new devic ar get better at talk to each other, allow peopl to enjoi digit content, like audio, video and imag, when thei want, and where thei want.
