supercomput break speed record

the us is pois to push japan off the top of the supercomput chart with ibm's prototyp blue gene/l machin.

it is be assembl for the lawrenc livermor nation laboratori, a us depart of energi (doe) lab. doe test result show that blue gene/l ha manag speed of 70.72 teraflop. the current top machin, japan's nec earth simul, clock up 35.86. due next week, the top 500 list offici chart the fastest comput in the world. it is announc everi six month and is work out us an offici recognis mathemat speed test call linpack which measur calcul per second. the speed will most like make it the fastest comput system on the planet, yet the chip technolog power the machin is the kind which can be found in familiar devic such as game consol.

the us secretari of energi spencer abraham confirm that the machin had reach the breakneck speed, accord to the linpack benchmark. until the offici list is publish, howev, blue gene/l's posit will not be confirm, and there ar expect to be some other new entri. but the test result rais the bar of supercomput enorm and signal a remark achiev. surpass the 40 trillion calcul per second (teraflop) mark ha been consid a landmark for some time.

the ibm blue gene/l is onli a prototyp and is on 5th the speed of the full version, due to be complet for the livermor lab in 2005. it peak theoret perform is expect to be 360 teraflop, and will fit into 64 full rack. it will also cut down on the amount of heat gener by the massiv power, a big problem for supercomput. the final machin will help scientist work out the safeti, secur and reliabl requir for the us's nuclear weapon stockpil, without the need for underground nuclear test. the earth simul ha held on to the top spot sinc june 2002. it is dedic to climat model and simul seismic activ. but in septemb, ibm said that anoth blue gene/l machin clock up 36.01 teraflop, margin surpass the earth simul's perform. thi wa achiev dure intern test at ibm's product facil in rochest, minnesota, though, so wa not an offici record. anoth giant to enter the frai is silicon graphic' columbia supercomput base at nasa's am research center in california. it would be us to model flight mission, climat research, and aerospac engin. the linux-base machin wa report to have reach a top speed of 42.7 teraflop in octob.

supercomput ar huge import for work out veri complex problem across scienc and societi. their massiv simul and process power mean thei can improv the accuraci of weather forecast, help design better car, and improv diseas diagnosi. ibm's senior vice presid of technolog and manufactur, nick donofrio, believ that by 2006, blue gene will be capabl of petaflop comput. thi mean it would be capabl of do 1,000 trillion oper a second. "when you get a comput as larg as a petaflop, you can start to think of simul that might complement the physic world," mr donofrio recent told the bbc new websit.

"you can start to be more proactiv, more interact and more innov." on area where mr donofrio see supercomput - and blue gene machin in particular - as crucial is health. he believ the machin can help scientist understand on of the greatest challeng of the 21st centuri: protein fold. "health is on of the most import problem, not just map the human genom, but also protein structur. "we ar a great believ in simul. it give you anoth tool," he said. onc the structur of protein ar understood fulli, then drug can be tailor-made to fight diseas more effect. compar with the current fastest supercomput, blue gene is design to consum on 15th the power and be 10 time more compact. sinc the first supercomput, the crai-1, wa instal at lo alamo nation laboratori in 1976, comput speed ha leap 500,000 time. the crai-1 wa capabl of 80 megaflop (80 million oper a second). the blue gene/l machin that will be complet next year will be five million time faster. start in 1993, the top 500 list is decid by a group of comput scienc academ from around the world. it is present at the intern supercomput confer in pittsburgh.
