gadget galor on show at fair

the 2005 consum electron show in la vega is a geek's paradis with more than 50,000 new gadget and technolog launch dure the four-dai event.

top gadget at the show ar highlight in the innov showcas, which recognis some of the hottest develop in consum electron. the bbc new websit took an earli pre-show look at some of those technolog that will be make their debut in 2005. 

 

on of the kei issu for keen gadget user is how to store all their digit imag, audio and video file. the 2.5gb and 5gb circular pocket hard drive from seagat might help. the extern usb drive won a ce best innov design and engin award and is small enough to slip into a pocket. "it is the kind of storag that appeal to peopl who want their pc to look cool," said seagat. "it is all about style but it also ha lot of function." "it is the first time you can sai a hard drive is sexi," it said. in the centr of the devic is a blue light that flash while data is be written to ensur user do not unplug it when it is busi save those preciou pictur. 

 

univers electron' nevosl is a univers control that let peopl us on devic to get at their multimedia content, such as photo, no matter where it is in their hous. it can also act as a remot for home theatr and stereo system. work with home broadband network and pc, the gadget ha built-in wireless and a colour, simpl interfac. paul arl, uei chief, said consum face real problem when try to get at all the file thei own that ar typic spread across sever differ devic. he said the nevo gave peopl a simpl, singl wai to regain some control over digit media in the home. the nevo won two award at ce, on as a girl's best friend award and anoth for innov, design and engin. the gadget is expect to go on sale befor the summer and will cost about $799 (£425). 

 

hotseat is target keen gamer with monei to spend with it solo chassi game chair. the special-design chair let gamer plai in surround-sound while stretch out in their own "space". it is compat with all the major game consol, dvd player and pc. "we found that kid love plai in surround sound," said jai leboff from hotseat. "we ar look at offer differ type of seat, depend on the market success of thi on." the chair also let peopl experi surround sound while watch video, with wireless control for six surround sound speaker. and a drink holder. the chair, which look like a car seat on a skelet frame, should go on sale in april and is expect to cost $399 (£211). 

 

satellit radio is big busi in the us. in the uk, the digit radio technolog is known as dab and work on slightli differ technolog. eton corpor's porsch design p7131 digit radio set will be launch both as a dab radio in the uk as well as a satellit radio set in the us. dab set have been slow to take-off in the uk, but thi on concentr on sleek look as much as technolog. "it is for the risqu&#233; consum," said an eton spokesperson. "we ar proud of it becaus it ha the sound qualiti for the audiophil and the look for the design-consciou consum." the porsch radio is set to go on sale at the end of januari in the us and in the first quarter of 2005 in the uk. in the us is it expect to cost $250 (£133). 

 

the averag person ha a librari of 600 digit imag estim the consum electron associ, the organis behind ce. thi is expect to grow to a massiv 3,420 imag - or 7.2gb - in five year' time. on gadget that might help swell that collect is sanyo's tini handheld vpc-c4 camcord which is anoth innov in design and engin award winner. it combin high qualiti video and still in a veri small devic. it take mpeg4 video qualiti at 30 frame a second and ha a four megapixel still camera. imag and video ar store on sd card, which have come down in price in recent month. a 512mb card will store about 30 minut of video and 420 still. the devic is so tini it can be control with on thumb. becaus imag and video ar store on sd memori, it is portabl to other devic and mean other data like audio can be store on the card too. 

 

wearabl technolog ha alwai promis much but fail to deliv becaus of lack of storag capabl and poor design. mpio's tini digit usb music player come in an arrai of fashion colour, take a leaf out of the appl ipod mini book of design and reflect the desir for gadget that look good. slung on a cord, the player would not look too geeki dangl discreetli from the neck. although the pendant design wa launch three month ago, the devic emphasis larg storag as well as good look for fashion-consciou gadget fiend. an even dinkier model, the fy500, come out in mai and will store about 256mb of music. the rang of player recent won an intern forum design award 2005.
