slimmer playstat tripl sale

soni playstat 2's slimmer shape ha prove popular with uk gamer, with 50,000 sold in it first week on sale.

sale have tripl sinc launch, outstrip microsoft's xbox, said market analyst chart-track. the number were also boost by the releas of the ps2-onli game grand theft auto: san andrea. the titl broke the uk sale record for video game in it first weekend of releas. latest figur suggest it ha sold more than 677,000 copi.

"it is obvious veri, veri encourag for soni becaus microsoft briefli outsold them last week," john houlihan, editor of computerandvideogam.com told bbc new. "and with halo 2 [for xbox] out next week, it realli is a head-to-head contest between them and xbox."

although xbox sale over the last week also climb, ps2 sale were more than doubl that. the figur mean soni is reach the seven million barrier for uk sale of the consol. edinburgh-base develop, rockstar, which is behind the gta titl, ha seen san andrea pull in an estim £24m in gross revenu over the weekend. in comparison, blockbust film like harri potter and the prison of azkaban took £11.5m in it first three dai at the uk box offic. the lord of the ring: the return of the king took nearli £10m over it open weekend, although game titl ar four to five time more expens than cinema ticket.

gangster-theme gta san andrea is the sequel to grand theft auto vice citi which previous held the record for the fastest-sell video game ever. the xbox game halo 2, releas on 11 novemb in the uk, is also wide tip to be on of the best-sell game of the year. the origin titl won univers acclaim in 2001, and sold more than four million copi.

mr houlihan ad that soni had done well with the ps2, but it definit help that the releas of san andrea coincid with the slimlin ps2 hit the shelv. the run-up to christma is a huge battlefield for game consol and titl. microsoft's xbox had been win the race up until last week in sale. the sale figur also suggest that it mai be a larg adult audienc drive demand, sinc gta san andrea ha an 18 certif. soni and microsoft have both reduc consol price recent and ar prepar the wai for the launch of their next gener consol in 2005. "both have hit crucial price point at around £100 and that realli doe open up new consol to new audienc, plu the releas of two realli import game in term of develop ar also drive those sale," said mr houlihan.
