seamen sail into biometr futur

the luxuri cruis liner crystal harmoni, current in the gulf of mexico, is the unlik set for test of biometr technolog.

as holidaymak enjoi balmi breez, their ship's crew is test prototyp version of the world's first internation issu biometr id card, the seafar's equival of a passport. along with the owner's pictur, name and person detail, the new seafar' ident document incorpor a barcod repres uniqu featur of it holder's fingerprint. the card ar due to be issu in februari next year, in line with the revis un convent on seafar' ident document of june 2003. test current under wai in the caribbean ar design to ensur that new card and their machin reader, produc by differ compani in differ countri, ar work to interoper standard. result of the current test, which involv seafar from a wide rang of occup and nation, will be publish by the intern labour organis (ilo) by the end of novemb. crystal cruis, which oper the crystal harmoni, is explor the us of biometr but ha not yet commit to the technolog.

authenti-corp, the us technolog consult, ha been work with the ilo on it technic specif for the card.

"if you're issu a seafar's id in your countri, you want to be sure that when the ship land in a port in, sai, my countri you can valid yourself us whatev equip we have instal," authenti-corp's ceo, cynthia musselman, told the bbc's go digit programm. she said french, jordanian and nigerian nation would be the first seafar to get the new id card sinc their countri have alreadi ratifi the convent. it aim to combat intern terror whilst guarante the welfar the on million seafar estim to be at sea. the convent highlight the import of access to shore facil and shore leav as vital element to a sailor's wellb and, therefor, it sai, to safer ship and cleaner ocean. "by increas secur on the sea as well as border control and protect, the card will hopefulli reduc the number of piraci problem around the world," said ms musselman. "it should be a safer environ for seafar to work in, and will allow peopl protect their border to have confid that the peopl get off the ship ar, in fact, seafar."
