learn to love broadband

we ar reach the point where broadband is a central part of daili life, at least for some, argu technolog analyst bill thompson.

on of the nice thing about be a writer is that i rare have to go to an offic to work. i can sit in a caf&#233; or a librari, with or without a wi-fi connect, and research and write articl. if i am pass through king cross station on my wai to a meet then i can log on from the platform. and i can spend the dai work with my girlfriend ann, a children's writer, at her hous in cambridg, share her wireless network. but just over a week ago i arriv at her hous to find that there wa no network connect.

we check the cabl modem and notic that it had no power, and when she chang the power lead it spark at her in a wai which made it abundantli clear that it wa never go to talk to the internet again. she call her servic provid, and thei told her it would be five dai befor an engin would show up with a new cabl modem. thi did not seem too bad, but in fact she realli suffer until her connect wa restor on wednesdai. with no modem instal in her comput, she had to borrow internet access from friend or us the dial-up connect on her daughter's laptop, so she had to choos between copi her file onto her usb memori card or accept a slower and flakier net connect. as a result she did not submit the pictur she want to us for a book on earthquak becaus thei were too big to send over dial-up.

she could not research other materi becaus she is us to have easi access to a fast link that let her search quickli and effect. but the impact spread into her person life too. she did not take her children to the cinema dure half-term becaus she could not find out which film were show at the local cinema. she plan a trip to norfolk but did not check the weather becaus the onli place she know to look for weather inform is the bbc websit. and she did not know where to go fossil-hunt on the trip becaus she could not type "fossil norfolk" into googl. of cours, she readili admit, she could have answer these question if she had look in the local paper, listen to the radio or found a book on fossil. but she did not, becaus have fast, alwai on, and easi access to the net ha becom part of the routin of her daili life, and when it wa taken awai it wa too much effort to go back to the old wai of do thing. she mai be unusu, but i do not think ann is alon.

accord to ofcom there were almost four million broadband user in the uk in april 2004, and number ar climb fast. there will certainli be five million by the end of the year. dial-up user ar switch to broadband. my dad final made the chang earlier thi month and new net user ar select broadband from the start. more and more of these broadband user ar begin to mould their daili live around the avail of broadband internet connect, and thei too will find it difficult to cope if thei cannot get onlin for ani reason.

it is part of the process of adapt, and it is a vital step in the growth of broadband in the uk and elsewher. peopl who have integr net access into their daili live tell their friend about it, and show off the cool stuff thei can do. thei encourag other peopl to get broadband so that thei can share digit photo and do all of the other thing that need fast and reliabl connect. of cours, broadband in the uk is laughabl slow compar to other part of the world. in south korea, japan and hong kong normal connect speed ar measur in megabit, or million of bit, a second rather than the thousand that we ar suppos to be happi with. but speed is onli a small part of the attract of broadband, and when it come to check websit for film time, look at weather forecast, or all of the other small thing that make a real differ to the routin and habit of our daili live, even uk speed ar suffici. it mai not be the brave new world of stream full-screen video and superfast file download, but it will do for now. and it is certainli better than slow access or no access. just ask ann.

bill thompson is a regular comment on the bbc world servic programm go digit.
