a question of trust and technolog

a major govern depart is without e-mail for a week, and technolog analyst bill thompson want to know what happen.

a coupl of week ago i wrote about how my girlfriend had suffer when her cabl modem blew up and she wa offlin for sever dai. it seem that thousand of civil servant at the uk's depart of work and pension went through the same thing last week. it ha emerg that the intern network crash in a particularli horribl wai, depriv staff of e-mail and access to the applic softwar thei us to calcul peopl's benefit and pension entitl or note chang in person circumst. senior consult from ed, the comput firm which manag the system, and microsoft, which suppli the softwar, were run around try to figur out what had to be done to fix it all, while staff resort to phone, fax and probabl carrier pigeon to get work done. fortun the back-offic system which actual pai peopl their monei were still work, so onli new claim and updat were affect done properli. thi is bad enough for those affect, but it doe mean that the impact is not devast for million of pension. i am sure regular reader will be expect on of my usual diatrib against poor softwar, badli specifi system and inadequ disast recoveri plan.

although the full stori ha not yet been told, it seem that the problem start when a plan to upgrad some of the comput from window 2000 to window xp went wrong, and xp code wa inadvert copi to thousand of machin across the network.

thi is certainli unfortun, but i have a lot of sympathi for the network manag and technolog staff involv. todai's comput network ar larg, complex and occasion fragil. the interconnected that we all valu also give us a degre of instabl and unpredict that we cannot design out of the system. it is the network equival of godel's theorem - ani system suffici complex to be us is also abl to collaps catastroph. so i will reserv judgment on the technolog aspect until we all know what actual happen and whether it wa a consequ of softwar failur or just bad luck. what is realli disturb, and cannot be excus, is the fact that it took four dai for new of thi system failur to leak out into the technic press.

it is, without a doubt, a major stori and wa the second or third lead item on bbc radio 4's todai programm throughout fridai morn.

so why did not the prime minist's offici spokesman mention it at ani lobbi brief befor fridai? why wa not the pension minist in parliament to make an emerg statement on tuesdai, when it wa clear that there wa a seriou problem? if there had been an outbreak of legionnair's diseas in the air condit system we would have been told, but it seem that major technolog problem do not merit the same treatment. while ed and microsoft will no doubt be look for technic lesson to learn from their week of pain, we can learn some polit lesson too. and the most import is that in thi digit world, technolog failur ar matter of public interest, not someth that can be ignor in the hope that nobodi will notic, care or understand. that mean we need a full report on what went wrong and what wa done to fix it. it would be unaccept for ani of the parti involv to hide behind commerci confidenti or even parliamentari privileg. a major system ha evid collaps and we need to know what went wrong and what is be done differ. anyth less is a betray of public trust.

bill thompson is a regular comment on the bbc world servic programm go digit.
