call for action on internet scam

phone compani ar not do enough to warn custom about internet "rogu-diall" scam, accord to premium phone line regul icsti.

it ha receiv 45,000 complaint in recent month about dial-up internet connect divert to premium rate number without user' knowledg. phone compani refus to pai compens becaus thei sai call must be paid for. thei must warn peopl earlier about possibl fraud, icsti said.

peopl who us dial-up connect can be affect by the scam. without realis, a program can be download which divert internet call via a premium phone line. victim often fail to notic until thei receiv an unusu high bill. icsti spokesman rob dwight said: "phone compani should get in touch with their custom sooner. "if my bill goe over the usual £50 a month i want to know about it straight awai - i don't want to be told when it's hit £750."

phone compani had the system in place to spot fraudul activ and artifici-inflat traffic, he said. "we alert them to the number that we have under investig and thei should be look out for these number," he ad.

telecom ombudsman elizabeth franc said: "certainli i would not be surpris to find my credit card compani phone me if i do someth out of the ordinari. "so i would expect phone compani to be look to see if thei can have a similar approach." the biggest phone compani bt sai it is do what it can to monitor fraud and warn peopl about rogu diall. it advic to custom is to us call bar if thei want to prevent call to premium line becaus, under the current system, onc the call ha been made there's littl that can be done.

gavin patterson, group manag director for bt consum, said "we do look at custom's call pattern and we do make intervent when thei ar out of the ordinari. "we're look at the moment at whether we can improv thi." but as bt handl 180 million call a dai monitor wa "quit a task in itself", he ad. the govern ha order a review of premium line servic and is like to sai icsti should have more power to deal with rogu dialler in futur. at the moment, it cannot demand pai-out on the behalf of custom - it can onli close illeg servic down.

i us free anti-viru softwar (avg) and free firewal protect (zonealarm). both of these tool have prevent unauthoris access and outgo call inadvert and innoc caus by my daughter's love of music site. how about isp inform all custom of such facil? the respons clearli fall with the custom but mani fall prei through simpli not know how to avoid these issu.

ignor is and alwai ha been an expens busi.

doe ani on know what happen onc thi fraud ha been commit and recognis? the phone compani pai the peopl who obtain monei fraudul, so ar these peopl follow up and prosecut ?

these dialler ar mainli download from site offer illeg mp3s, porn and pirat softwar. if peopl didn't visit such site thei'd be consider less at risk. whatev happen to person respons? it seem everyon ha to be a 'victim' these dai!

part of the blame ha to rest with the manufactur of home comput oper system. a secur system should not allow a web page or email to download and instal anyth without the user's knowledg.

these scam ar illeg and telephon compani should have noth to do with them. thei should refus to pai monei over to the perpetr. or ar thei themselv receiv such good return that it is in their interest to keep the scam go?

why don't bt et al block all premium number by default and onli turn it off at the custom's request? to anyon who fall foul of thi scam - refus to pai your telephon provid for these call. after you notifi your telephon provid of these fraudul transact, thei cannot insist on you pai the bill. to do so would be to knowingli assist the fraudster to commit the fraud. no custom have yet been taken to court for refus to pai these bill.

disabl or remov your modem and us broadband instead - then you have noth to worri about. or bui some decent firewal softwar and anti-viru. you would not walk out in the freez cold without a coat - you would not drive your car without ani insur - so why not protect your pc? stop blame the phone compani - it's not their fault!

i wa veri impress with our phone compani recent. i had kept ring a hotlin number for kyli ticket and next dai thei rang back to ask if i wa awar there were 40-odd call to the same number. great servic. and i got the ticket as well!

i have a colleagu who ha fallen victim to thi kind of scam. he inform the phone compani about it, thei subsequ put a block on premium rate number. three month later anoth huge bill of over £1,000 came in - the block appar didn't work and he still ha to pai for it, even though a block wa in place. phone compani ar probabl quit happi for their custom to be hit with a huge bill, otherwis thei'd be take extra step to prevent thi kind of problem.

i have been scam of £139. the oper will do noth about thi and, to add insult to injuri, i wa charg vat by the govern.

premium rate number have been subject to variou scam ever sinc thei were invent. on exampl wa where thiev would set up a premium rate number and then dial it dai and night from phone whose quarterli bill were never paid. the telephon compani wa the victim here and you can bet that loophol wa block veri quickli.

i know peopl who have run up larg bill, despit be it-liter. from talk to bt in belfast, i believ that thei will shortli be give out a free applic that can stop you diall expens number without know. it's not the fault of phone compani, and at last thei ar do someth about it.

it's about time that the profit by the 'legitim' phone compani came to an end, mainli by do awai with dial-up altogeth and bring broadband down to the same price as dial-up! not onli will thi ruin thing for the dialler scammer but also allow peopl to updat and upgrad their secur more easili and quickli.

i haven't "fallen victim to a rogu-diall scam" but i think you're serious remiss in not point out that the vast major of these scam aris from peopl try to access servic purport to provid free pornographi. in most case the user is entir at fault, which is probabl why the telephon compani ar rightli unwil to refund them.

my telephon supplier did not inform me that my monthli bill had risen from it normal £3 to £5, to £320. thi wa becaus of the scam. thei simpli bill me. what particularli gall me, over and abov have over £300 stolen, is that the supplier and the govern (through vat) ar profit from thi crime and will not reimburs me their portion of my loss.

how about an automat monthli cap of sai £20 on premium rate call that you would have to contact your provid to have lift? that wai you could us legitim premium rate number while limit fraudul usag. at least ani disput amount would be limit, far easier for a telecom oper to write off £20 than it is £750.

a few year back i wa also the target of such scam but thank god i have alreadi upgrad to broadband and noth wa connect to my modem so all i heard wa the sound of an attempt connect.

how about home user take some respons and ensur their anti-viru and firewal softwar is up to date? that should prevent the vast major of these scam.
