screensav tackl spam websit

net user ar get the chanc to fight back against spam websit

internet portal lyco ha made a screensav that endlessli request data from site that sell the good and servic mention in spam e-mail. lyco hope it will make the monthli bandwidth bill of spammer soar by keep their server run flat out. the net firm estim that if enough peopl sign up and download the tool, spammer could end up pai to send out terabyt of data.

"we've never realli solv the big problem of spam which is that it so damn cheap and easi to do," said malt pollmann, spokesman for lyco europ. "in the past we have built up the spam filter system for our user," he said, "but now we ar go to go on step further."

"we've found a wai to make it much higher cost for spammer by put a load on their server." by get thousand of peopl to download and us the screensav, lyco hope to get spam websit constantli run at almost full capac. mr pollmann said there wa no intent to stop the spam websit work by subject them with too much data to cope with. he said the screensav had been carefulli written to ensur that the amount of traffic it gener from each user did not overload the web. "everi singl user will contribut three to four megabyt per dai," he said, "about on mp3 file." but, he said, if enough peopl sign up spam websit could be forc to pai for gigabyt of traffic everi singl dai. lyco did not want to us e-mail to fight back, said mr pollmann. "that would be fight on bad thing with anoth bad thing," he said.

the site be target ar those mention in spam e-mail messag and which sell the good and servic on offer.

typic these site ar differ to those that us to send out spam e-mail and thei typic onli get a few thousand visitor per dai. the list of site that the screensav will target is taken from real-time blacklist gener by organis such as spamcop. to limit the chanc of mistak be made, lyco is us peopl to ensur that the site ar sell spam good. as these site rare us advertis to offset host cost, the burden of high-bandwidth bill could make spam too expens, said mr pollmann. site will also slow down under the weight of data request. earli result show that respons time of some site have deterior by up to 85%. user do not have to be regist user of lyco to download and us the screensav. while work, the screensav show the websit that ar be bother with request for data. the screensav is due to be launch across europ on 1 decemb and befor now ha onli been triall in sweden. despit the soft launch, mr pollmann said that the screensav had been download more than 20,000 time in the last four dai. "there's a huge user demand to not onli filter spam dai-by-dai but to do someth more," he said "befor now user have never had the chanc to be a bit more offens."
