onlin common to spark debat

onlin commun set up by the uk govern could encourag public debat and build trust, sai the institut of public polici research (ippr).

exist servic such as ebai could provid a good blueprint for such servic, sai the think-tank. although the net is becom part of local and central govern, it potenti ha not yet been fulli exploit to creat an onlin "common" for public debat. in it report, is onlin commun a polici tool?, the ippr also ask if id card could help creat safer onlin commun. adopt an ebai-type model would let commun creat their own market for skill and servic and help foster a sens of local ident and connect. "what we ar propos is a civic common," will davi, senior research fellow at the ippr told the bbc new websit. "a singl publicli fund and run onlin commun in which citizen can have a singl place to go where you can go to engag in divers and in a wai that might have a polici implic - like a pre-legisl discuss."

the idea of a "civic common" wa origin propos by stephen coleman, professor of e-democraci at the oxford internet institut. the ippr report point to inform, small scale exampl of such common that alreadi exist. it mention good-practic public initi like the bbc's ican project which connect peopl local and nation who want to take action around import issu.

but he add, govern could plai a bigger role in set up system of trust for onlin commun too. propos for id card, for instanc, could also be widen to see if thei could be us onlin. thei could provid the basi for a secur authent system which could have valu for peer-to-peer interact onlin. "at the moment thei have been present as a wai for govern to keep tab on peopl and ensur access to public servic," said mr davi. "but what ha not been explor is how authent technolog mai potenti plai a role in decentralis onlin commun." the kei idea to take from system such as ebai and other onlin commun is let member rate each other's reput by how thei treat other member. us a similar mechan, trust and cooper between member of virtual and physic commun could be built. thi could mean a civic common would work within a non-market system which let peopl who mai disagre with on anoth interact within publicli-recognis rule.

e-govern initi over the last decad have veri much been about put basic inform and servic guid onlin as well as let peopl interact with govern via the web. mani onlin commun, such as chatroom, mail list, commun portal, messag board and weblog often form around common interest or issu.

with 53% of uk household now with access to the net, the govern, suggest mr davi, could act as an intermediari or "middleman" to set up public onlin place of debat and exchang to encourag more "cosmopolitan polit" and public trust in polici. "govern alreadi plai a critic role in help citizen trade with each other onlin. "but it should also plai a role in help citizen connect to on anoth in civic, non-market interact," said mr davi. there is a role for public bodi like the bbc, librari, and govern to bring peopl back into public debat again instead of million of "cliqu" talk to each other, he ad. the paper is part of the ippr's digit societi initi which is produc a number of confer and research paper lead up to the public of a manifesto for a digit britain.
