mobil game take off in india

game on the move is on of the fastest-grow activ among the tech-savvi in india, sai a report.

the indian mobil game market is expect to gener about $26m (£13.8m) by the end of 2004, accord to market analyst in-stat/mdr. in octob, mobil phone user grew by 1.4 million to 44.9 million, overtak the number of landlin, said the telecom regulatori author of india. analyst sai cheap rate and a huge youth market is drive the market. india ha a larg popul of under-25s, and mani in urban area ar fast adopt mobil as must-have gadget.

india's mobil game market will bring in about $336m (£178m) by 2009, accord to the report. mobil game is expect to explod global over the next few year. analyst predict that 220 million peopl will be plai game on phone by 2009, gener billion for mobil compani.

servic other than just voic call which ar offer by mobil oper in india have, as a result of the huge rise in subscrib, grown significantli and rapidli. "the growth of thi market sector ha attract publish, develop, anim, musician, and content provid, and is also stimul the develop of innov busi model," said clint wheelock, director of in-stat/mdr's wireless research group.

"mobil game is not just about fun; it also repres on kei element of a rich mobil entertain experi for consum, and a lucr market opportun for industri player." current, india ha six big game develop and four mobil oper that offer game to their subscrib, said the report. accord to in-stat/mdr, it is tip to make up on of the most import market in the next wave of mobil multimedia growth.

in januari 2003, there were onli 10 million mobil subscrib in india. mani choos mobil in rural area in order to bypass poorer telecom infrastructur. despit thi, the penetr rate is still much lower that other countri. less than 20% of india's total popul own a mobil in india, compar to well over 50% in most european countri. the trend echo the uptak of mobil in mani develop economi, which continu to grow as peopl opt to leapfrog slower and more expens state-run fix-line oper.
