gadget market 'to grow in 2005'

the explos in consum technolog is to continu into 2005, deleg at the world's largest gadget show, in la vega, have been told.

the number of gadget in the shop is predict to grow by 11%, while devic which talk to each other will becom increasingli import. "everyth is go digit," kirsten pfeifer from the consum electron associ, told the bbc new websit. the consum electron show (ce) featur the pick of 2005's product. "consum ar control what thei want and technolog like hdtv [high-definit tv], digit radio, and digit camera will remain strong in 2005. "all the product on show realli show the breadth and depth of the industri." despit show divers, some deleg attend complain that the showcas lack as much "wow factor" as in previou year.

the portabl technolog on show also reflect on of the buzzword of ce, which wa the "time and place shift" of multimedia content - be abl to watch and listen to video and music anywher, at ani time. at the start of last year's ce, the cea predict there would be an averag growth of 4% in 2004. that figur wa surpass with the rise in popular of portabl digit music player, person video record and digit camera. it wa clear also that gadget ar becom a lot more about lifestyl choic, with fashion and personalis becom increasingli kei to the wai gadget ar design. part of thi ha been the rise in spend power of the "gener x-er" who have grown up with technolog and who now have the spend power and desir for more devic that suit them. more than 57% of the consum electron market is made up of femal buyer, accord to cea research. hybrid devic, which combin a number of multimedia function, were also in evid on the show floor. "a lot of thi is driven by just the abil to do it," said stephen baker, a consum electron analyst with retail research firm npd group. "some of these function cost next to noth to add."

as well as the show floor showcas everyth from tini wearabl mp3 player to giant high-definit tv, sever keynot speech were made by industri leader, such as microsoft chief bill gate. despit sever embarrass technic glitch dure mr gate's pre-show speech, he announc sever new partnership - mainli for the us market. he unveil new wai of let peopl take tv show record on person video record and watch them back on portabl devic. he disappoint some, howev, by fail to announc ani detail of the next gener of the xbox game consol. anoth disappoint wa the lack of exposur soni's new portabl game devic, the psp, had at the show. soni said the much-anticip gadget would most like start ship in march for the us and europ. it went on sale in japan befor christma. there were onli two psp embed in glass cabinet at the show though and no repres to discuss further detail. a soni repres told the bbc new websit thi wa becaus soni did not consid it to be part of their "consum technolog" offer.

elsewher at the show, there wa a plethora of colour and plasma screen, includ samsung's 102-inch (2.6 metr) plasma - the largest in the world. industri expert were also excit about high-definit technolog come to the fore in 2005, with new format for dvd come out which will hold six time as much data as convent dvd. with so mani devic on the move there were a lot of product on show offer extern storag, like seagat's 5gb pocket size extern hard drive, which won an innov for engin and design prize. more than 120,000 trade profession attend ce in la vega, which offici ran from 6 to 9 januari.
