ban hit half-life 2 pirat hard

about 20,000 peopl have been ban from plai the half-life 2 game.

game maker valv shut down the onlin account of the player becaus it had evid that their copi of the game had been obtain illeg. copi of half-life 2 had been circul on file-share system soon after it wa offici releas. expert said the success of the half-life 2 anti-piraci system might tempt other game maker into creat their own version.

half-life 2 wa offici releas on 16 novemb but befor gamer could get to grip with the long-await titl thei were forc to authent their copi of the game onlin. authent involv set up an account with valv's game commun system call steam and let that check which copi of the game wa be run.

in a statement detail the ban of the account valv said thi system help identifi who had got hold of pirat copi. "the method us wa extrem easi for valv to trace and confirm, and so there is no question that the account disabl were us to try and illeg obtain half-life 2," read the statement. valv spokesman doug lombardi said that the compani had not yet releas sale figur for the game and would not sai what proport of all steam player the 20,000 repres. on effect of steam's popular ha been to limit the copi of the game sold in shop and artifici depress the game's rank in the top ten. even so the titl debut at no 3 in the uk chart. valv also said that a small number of account were close becaus peopl were us stolen credit card to bui copi of the game or were us stolen steam account. some of those who have been ban by the move protest their innoc in the onlin forum on the main steam site and said thei were be punish for what other peopl did with their account.

some contributor to the forum wonder if the action might forc more piraci as peopl tri to get hold of success copi of the game to keep ahead of valv's anti-piraci action.

in it statement valv also said that rumour that it distribut fake half-life 2 kei, copi of the game or instruct on how to hack the game, just to catch pirat and cheat were fals. the compani said: "the hack came from the 'commun' as do thei all." it ad that most of those ban simpli tri to us copi of half-life 2 circul on file-swap system such as bit torrent rather than us hack to get around the need for cd kei. rob fahei, editor of onlin new site gamesindustri.biz, said the mass ban show off the power of the steam system. befor now, he said, it ha been hard for game maker to do anyth about piraci onc the game wa be plai. "but with thi, valv is take realli effect step against peopl us illegitim copi of half-life 2," he said. if steam prove effect at cut the piraci of game to a minimum, said mr fahei, other game maker mai be tempt to set up copycat system. "it's not hard to see a point in the near futur when everi publish want you to run an applic on your system pure to allow you to plai their game," he said. thi could mean that comput get clutter with poorli written steam-type system that ar us to batter peopl with advert. unless game firm were care, he said, thei could face a backlash from consum who soon get tire of maintain differ account for everi game thei plai.
