new browser win over net surfer

the proport of surfer us microsoft's internet explor (ie) ha drop to below 90%, sai web analyst.

net traffic monitor, onestat.com, ha report that the open-sourc browser firefox 1.0, releas on 9 novemb, seem to be draw user awai from ie. while ie's market share ha drop 5% sinc mai to 88.9%, mozilla browser - includ firefox - have grown by 5%. firefox is made by the mozilla foundat which wa set up by former browser maker netscap in 1998. although there have been other preview version of firefox, version 1.0 wa the first complet offici program. "it seem that peopl ar switch from microsoft's internet explor to mozilla's new firefox browser," said niel brinkman, co-founder of amsterdam-base onestat.com.

mozilla browser - includ firefox 1.0 - now have 7.4% of the market share, the figur suggest. mozilla said that more than five million have download the free softwar sinc it offici releas. support of the open-sourc softwar in the us manag to rais $250,000 (£133,000) to advertis the releas of firefox 1.0 in the new york time, and support the mozilla foundat. there wa a flurri of download on it first dai of releas.

the figur echo similar research from net analyst websidestori which suggest that ie had 92.9% of user in octob compar to 95.5% in june. microsoft ie ha domin the browser market for some time after take the crown from netscap, and it share of user ha alwai stai at around the 95% mark. firefox is attract to mani becaus it is open-sourc. that mean peopl ar free to adapt the softwar's core code to creat other innov featur, like add-on or extens to the program. fewer secur hole have also been discov so far in firefox than in ie. paul randl, microsoft window client product manag, respond to the figur: "we certainli respect that some custom will choos altern browser and that choos a browser is about more than a hand of featur. "microsoft continu to make signific invest in ie, includ servic pack 2 with advanc secur technolog, and continu to encourag a vibrant ecosystem of third parti add-on for internet explor." firefox want to captur 10% of the market by the end of 2005. other browser softwar, like opera and appl's safari, ar also challeng microsoft's grip on the browser market. opera is set to releas it version 7.60 by the end of the year. onestat.com compil the statist measur from two million net user in 100 countri.
