music futur for phone

analyst bill thompson ha seen the futur and it is in hi son's hand.

i bought my son max a 3g phone, partli becaus thei ar so cheap and he need a phone, and partli becaus i am suppos to know about the latest technolog and thought i should see how thei work in real life. after us it for a while i am not at all tempt to get rid of my sonyericsson p800 smart phone. that ha a rel larg screen, even if it doe onli have slower gpr access to the network. i can read my e-mail, surf the web us a proper browser and write stuff us the stylu on it touch screen. last week someon e-mail me a document that had been compress into a zip file, and i wa pleasantli surpris to discov that my phone even knew how to decompress it for me. by contrast the confus menu, complic keyboard and truli irrit user interfac of max's 3g phone simpli get in the wai, and i did not see much valu in the paid-for servic, especi the limit web access. the video of entertain new, horoscop and the latest celebr gossip did not appeal, and i did not see how the small screen could be us for ani sort of imag, never mind micro-tv.

but then max start plai, and i realis i wa miss the point entir.

it is certainli not a great overal experi, but that is larg due to the poor menu system and the phone layout: the video content itself is compel. the qualiti wa at least as good as the video stream from the bbc websit, and the imag is about the same size. max wa complet captiv, and i wa intrigu to discov that i had nearli miss the next stage of the network revolut. it is easi to be dismiss of small screen, and inde anyon of my gener, with fail eyesight and the view that 'there's never anyth worth watch on tv', is hardli go to embrac these phone. but just as the world wide web wa the "killer applic" that drove internet adopt, music video ar go to drive 3g adopt. with vodafon now push it own 3g servic, and 3 alreadi establish in the uk, video on the phone is clearli go to becom a must-have for kid sit on the school bu, adult wait outsid club and anyon who ha time to kill and a group of friend to impress.

thi will pleas the network oper, who ar look for some revenu from their expens acquir 3g licenc. but it goe deeper than that: plai music video on a phone mark the begin of a move awai from the 'download and plai' model we have all accept for our ipod and mp3 player. after all, why should i want to carri 60gb of music and pictur around with me in my pocket when i can simpli listen to anyth i want, whenev i want, stream to my phone? oh - and of cours you can alwai us the phone to make voic call and send text, someth which ensur that it is alwai in someon's pocket or handbag, avail for other us too. i have never realli approv of us the internet protocol (ip), to do either audio or video stream, and i think that technic it is a disast to make phone call over the net us "voic over ip".

but i have to acknowledg that the net, at least here in the develop western countri, is fast and reliabl enough to do both.

i stream radio to my comput while i work, and enjoi hear the bizarr station from around the world that i can find onlin but nowher els. i am even plai with internet telephoni, despit my reserv, and i appear on go digit on the world servic, stream over the web each week. but 3g network have been design to do thi sort of stream, both for voic and video, which give them an edg over net-base ip servic. the 3g servic aren't quit there yet, and there is a lot to be sort out when it come to web access and data charg. vodafon will let you access it servic on vodafon live! as part of your subscript cost but it make you pai by the megabyt to download from other site - thi on, for exampl. thi will not matter to busi user, but will distort the consum market and keep peopl within the phone compani's collect of partner site, someth that should perhap be worri telecom regul ofcom. but we should not see these new phone simpli as cut-down network termin. if i want fast access to my e-mail i can get a 3g card for my laptop or hook up to a wireless network. the phone is a lot more, and it is as a combin of mini-tv, person commun devic and music/video player that it realli work. there is certainli room in the technolog ecosystem for mani differ sort of devic, access a wide rang of servic over differ network. 3g phone and ipod can co-exist, at least for a while, but if i had to bet on the long term i would go for content on demand over carri gigabyt in my pocket. or perhap some enterpris manufactur will offer me both. an mp3g player, anyon?

bill thompson is a regular comment on the bbc world servic programm go digit.
