multi-purpos tv aid india

two-third of the world's popul, 4 billion peopl, live on $2,000 a year or less.

you might think that the last thing on their mind would be get a televis set or a comput. but that's not the case. mani peopl in the develop world give up on of their daili meal so thei can afford to bui a tv. and now, an indian-born comput engin think he's come up with a wai to give them cheap access to the internet. carnegi mellon professor raj reddi ha spent the bulk of hi profession career try to find wai to make technolog access to poor peopl. the first step is to figur out why poor peopl would want a person comput and professor reddi think he ha a pretti good idea of why thei might. "i come from a villag," sai prof reddi, "i know what the popul is like, mani of them ar illiter, and mani of them have other concern." "there, nobodi will us it for the convent us of a pc, word process and powerpoint," he said. "so it's clear to me that if peopl want to us pc in a villag - it ha to usabl by illiter peopl and it must be primarili for entertain, educ, telemedicin, and access to expert advic."

prof reddi also think that ty it into some kind of aid packag wa the wrong approach. after all, he ask -- what aid group could possibl give expens comput to 250 million less fortun indian, let alon the billion of poor peopl around the world?

instead, prof reddi decid to think of those 250 million indian as a potenti market. the problem then becom on of make the product compel enough. "it must be so compel that you would give up your third meal in order to have thi," prof reddi sai. "peopl do thi todai with televis set. if you go to india, and mani other countri, thei will first go get a televis set befor thei worri about on more meal. why? becaus person entertain ha becom veri import." thi hatch a complet new idea. he call it a pctvt - a person comput, televis and telephon all in on that run on a normal desktop machin. liter user can surf through the applic with a keyboard and mous but illiter user can us what look like a televis remot control.

on the screen, pictur - not word - design applic like tv, voic mail, and video e-mail. thi depend on graphic, video and audio mean that a comput for an illiter person need 100 time more power and more memori than on for a phd. prassana rambathla, on of prof reddi's graduat student, sai that "when you're talk illiter you're talk audio and video, and that demand exponenti high bandwidth.' "it can't choke at ani point in time, and it ha to withstand anyth no matter what you're press." "the major part is make it foolproof, veri tough, so that it never break," he sai. the carnegi mellon team sai thi project is onli possibl becaus pc ar now so much cheaper and have built-in audio and video hardwar and softwar. limit trial of the pctvt ar due to start thi month in the indian state of andhra pradesh.

although andhra pradesh ha a fairli good infrastructur but work ha to be done to ensur reliabl connect to the net. prof reddi ha team up with eric brewer at the univers of california at berkelei. the answer, sai prof brewer, is wi-fi.

"we're look at the thing you'll see in starbuck's or mani other hotspot," he sai. "we're do a lot of work on long-distanc wireless and how to make the network work better in the presenc of intermitt, when the power goe up and down, and the link go up and down, and the comput you're connect to just get turn off for no reason." prof reddi sai he hope to leas the pctvt for about $10 a month, and think indian will rent the unit for the televis and dvd capabl. reddi sai he can then introduc the pctvt's other technolog - such as video mail. for exampl, a farmer could us the pctvt's webcam to send a pictur of a harm insect to a local offici who could send back a propos cours of action to the farmer. prof reddi think thi kind of commun is the real pai-off. "the underli problem," he sai, "is how you can increas their wealth and reduc their poverti and reduc their illiteraci, and improv their health care.' "and what i'm postul is that thi is the technolog that will enabl them. if i didn't have it, it would be an uphil battl. even with the technolog it's an uphil battl. but i have a tool. there is hope. i can reach them in wai that have not been possibl befor."

clark boyd is technolog correspond for the world, a bbc world servic and wgbh-boston co-product
