comput grid to help the world

your comput can now help solv the world's most difficult health and social problem.

launch thi week, the world commun grid will us idl comput time to test solut to these problem. the donat processor cycl will help the wcg creat virtual supercomput via the net. the idea follow the success of other similar project that have us the untap process power of million of desktop pc. on of the most success collabor project wa seti@home, run by the search for extra terrestri life project, which sort through radio signal look for sign of alien commun.

anyon can volunt to donat the spare time of their comput by download a special screensav from the wgc websit. onc instal, the virtual termin get a chunk of the comput task to process, and report back after complet that task. the first wcg problem be tackl will be the human proteom fold project, which hope to identifi the wai that the protein in our bodi fold.

the subject of studi ar be select by an intern advisori board of expert special in health scienc, and technolog. the bodi will evalu propos from lead research, public and not-for-profit organ, and is expect to overse up to six project a year. organis also repres on the board includ the unit nation develop programm and the world health organis.

"the world commun grid will enabl research around the globe to gather and analyz unpreced quantiti of data to help address import global issu," said elain gallin, program director for medic research at the dori duke charit foundat. "[it] will inspir us to look beyond the technolog limit that have histor restrict us from address some of our most intract problem", she ad. ibm ha donat the hardwar, softwar, technic servic and expertis to build the basic infrastructur for the grid. the comput compani, work with unit devic, previous develop the smallpox research grid, which link togeth more than two million volunt from 226 countri to speed the analysi of some 35 million drug molecul in the search for a treatment for smallpox.
