how to make a gigapixel pictur

the largest digit panoram photo in the world ha been creat by research in the netherland.

the finish imag is 2.5 billion pixel in size - make it about 500 time the resolut of imag produc by good consum digit camera. the huge imag of delft wa creat by stitch togeth 600 singl snap of the dutch citi taken at a fix spot. if print out in standard 300 dot per inch resolut, the pictur would be 2.5m high and 6m long.

the research have put the imag on a websit which let viewer explor the wealth of detail that it captur. tool on the page let viewer zoom in on the citi and it surround in great detail. the websit is alreadi prove popular and current ha more than 200,000 visitor everi dai.

the imag wa creat by imag expert from the dutch research and technolog laboratori tno which creat the 2.5 gigapixel photo as a summer time challeng.

the goal of the project wa to be on of the first group to make gigapixel imag. the first imag of such a size wa manual construct by us photograph max lyon in novemb 2003. that imag portrai bryce canyon nation park, in utah, and wa made up of 196 separ photograph. the panorama of delft is a littl staid in contrast to the dramat rockscap captur in mr lyon' imag. "he did it all by hand, which wa an enorm effort, and we got the idea that if you us automat techniqu, it would be feasibl to build a larger imag," said jurgen den hartog, on of the tno research behind the project. "we were not compet with mr lyon, but it start as a lunchtim bet."

the dutch team us alreadi avail technolog, although it had to upgrad them to be abl to handl the high-resolut imag.

"we had to rewrit almost all the tool," me den hartog told the bbc new websit. "all standard window viewer avail would not be abl to load such a larg imag, so we had to develop on ourselv." the 600 compon pictur were taken on juli 2004 by a comput-control camera with a 400 mm len. each imag wa made to slightli overlap so thei could be accur arrang into a composit. the stitch process wa also done automat us five power pc over three dai. follow the success of thi project, and with promis of help from other, the tno team is consid creat a full 360-degre panoram view of anoth dutch citi, with even higher resolut.
