remot control rifl rang debut

soon you could go hunt via the net.

a texa compani is consid let web user us a remot-control rifl to shoot down deer, antelop and wild pig. for a small fee user will take control of a camera and rifl that thei can us to spot and shoot the game anim as thei roam around a 133-hectar texa ranch. the live-shot websit behind the scheme alreadi let peopl practis shoot at target via the internet.

john underwood, the man behind the live-shot websit, said the idea for the remot-control hunt came to him a year ago when he wa watch deer via a webcam on anoth net site. "we were look at a beauti white-tail buck and my friend said 'if you just had a gun for that'. a littl light bulb went off in my head," mr underwood told the reuter new agenc. a year's work and $10,000 ha result in a remot-control rig on which sit a camera and .22 calibr rifl. mr underwood is plan to put on of these rig in a conceal locat in a small reserv on hi texa ranch and let peopl shoot at a varieti of game anim. also need is a fast net connect so remot hunter can quickli track and aim at pass game anim with the camera and rifl rig. each remot hunt session will cost $150 with addit fee for meat process and taxidermi work. speci that can be shot will includ barbari, corsican and mouflon sheep, blackbuck antelop and wild pig. alreadi the live-shot site let peopl shoot 10 round at paper and silhouett target for $5.95 for each 20-minut shoot session. for further fee, user can get the target thei shot and a dvd record of their session. handler overse each shoot session and can stop the gun be fire if it is be aim off-rang or at someth it should not be. mr underwood said that internet hunt could be popular with disabl hunter unabl to get out in the wood or distant hunter who cannot afford a trip to texa. in a statement the rspca said it had "grave concern" about peopl be allow to go onlin and remot control a rifl. "we assum it would be extrem difficult to accur control a gun in thi wai and therefor it would be difficult to ensur a 'clean kill', someth the rspca accept is the intent of those shoot for sport," it said. "anim hit but not kill would without doubt be caus to suffer unnecessarili," said the statement. mike berger, wildlif director of the texa park and wildlif depart, said current hunt statut did not cover net or remot hunt. he said state law on hunt onli cover "regul anim" such as nativ deer and bird speci. as such there wa noth to stop mr underwood let peopl hunt "unregul" import anim and wild pig. mr underwood also let peopl come in person to the ranch to hunt and shoot game anim.
