gangster domin game chart

video game on consol and comput prove more popular than ever in 2004.

gamer spent more than £1.34bn in 2004, almost 7% more than thei did in 2003 accord to figur releas by the uk game industri's trade bodi. sale record were smash by the top titl of the year gta: san andrea - in which player got the job of turn central charact cj into a crime boss. the game sold more than 1 million copi in the first nine dai that it wa on sale. thi feat made it the fastest sell video game of all time in the uk. although onli releas in novemb the sprawl stori of gun, gangster game beat off strong competit and by year end had sold more than 1.75 million copi. there were also record set for the number of game that achiev doubl-platinum statu by sell more than 600,000 copi. five titl, includ soni eyetoi plai and ea's need for speed: underground 2, manag thi feat accord to figur compil by chart-track for the entertain and leisur softwar publish associ (elspa). electron art, the world's biggest game publish, had 9 game in the top 20.

2004 wa a "stellar year" said roger bennett, director gener of elspa. "in a year with no new gener consol be releas, the market continu to be buoyant as the industri matur and the increasingli divers rang of game reach new audienc and broaden it player base - across ag and gender," he said. part of the success of game in 2004 could be due to the fact that so mani of them ar sequel. 16 out of the top 20 titl were all follow-up to establish franchis or direct sequel to previous popular game. halo, the sim, driver, need for speed, fifa footbal, burnout were just a few that prove as popular as the origin titl. despit thi fond for older game, doom 3 did not make it to the top 20. movi tie-in also prove their worth in 2004. game link to shrek, the incred, spider-man, harri potter and lord of the ring were all in the top 20. elspa note that sale of xbox game rose 37.9% dure the year. howev, soni's playstat 2 wa the top seller with 47% of the £1.34bn spent on game in 2004 us to bui titl for that consol. despit win award and rave review half-life 2 did not appear in the list. thi wa becaus it wa onli releas on pc and, compar to consol titl, sold in rel small number. also the novel distribut system adopt by develop valv meant that mani player download the titl rather than travel to the shop to bui a copi. valv ha yet to releas figur which show how mani copi of the game were sold in thi wai.
