british librari get wireless net

visitor to the british librari will be abl to get wireless internet access alongsid the extens inform avail in it famou read room.

broadband wireless connect will be made avail in the eleven read room, the auditorium, caf&#233;, restaur, and outdoor piazza area. a studi reveal that 86% of visitor to the librari carri laptop. the technolog ha been on trial sinc mai and usag level make the librari london's most activ public hotspot.

previous mani were leav the build to go to a nearbi internet caf&#233; to access their e-mail, the studi found. "at the british librari we ar continu explor wai in which technolog can help us to improv servic to our user," said lynn brindlei, chief execut of the british librari. "survei we conduct recent confirm that, alongsid the materi thei consult here, our user want to be abl to access the internet when thei ar at the librari for research or to commun with colleagu," she said. the servic will be price at £4.50 for an hour's session or £35 for a monthli pass. the studi, conduct by consult build zone, found that 16% of visitor came to the librari to sit down and us it as a busi centr. thi could be becaus of it proxim to busi mainlin station such as king cross and euston. the studi also found that peopl were spend an averag of six hour in the build, make it an ideal wireless hotspot. sinc mai the servic ha regist 1,200 session per week, make it london's most activ public hotspot. the major of visitor want to be abl to access their e-mail as well as the british librari catalogu. the servic ha been roll out in partnership with wireless provid the cloud and hewlett packard.

it will oper independ from the librari's exist network. the british librari receiv around 3,000 visitor each dai and serv around 500,000 reader each year. peopl come to view resourc which includ the world's largest collect of patent and the uk's most extens collect of scienc, technolog and medic inform. the librari receiv between three and four million request from remot user around the world each year.
