uk broadband get speed inject

broadband's rapid rise continu apac as speed gear up a notch.

an eight megabit servic ha been launch by internet servic provid uk onlin. it is 16 time faster than the averag broadband packag on the market and will pave the wai for servic such as video-on-demand and broadband tv. the servic is possibl due to a new regim which allow other oper to us bt's exchang and will initi onli be avail in town.

it repres a "big leap forward" for broadband, said chri stene, uk onlin gener manag.

the servic come with a hefti £39.99 monthli price tag but will mean user can download mp3s in second and offer tv-qualiti video stream. the servic includ wifi as standard, mean user can connect multipl pc, laptop and game consol from ani room in the hous. not everybodi will be abl to take advantag of the servic, as it will be restrict to metropolitan area. the servic will initi be avail to user within 2km radiu of 230 telephon exchang in area such as london, birmingham, glasgow and cambridg. that repres about 4.4 million household. the servic is possibl due to a decis to loosen bt's strangl-hold on telephon exchang.

the process, known as local loop unbundl, wa put in motion by the now defunct telecom watchdog oftel but ha onli prove popular in recent month due to fall cost. uk onlin is look at the possibl of bundl servic such as cheap net telephon call, video-on-demand and tv by 2005 if the servic prove popular. "the servic is twice as fast as ani other servic on offer in the uk and 16 time faster than most broadband servic," said mr stene. "it take a big leap for broadband and we ar veri excit about it," he said. countri such as south korea and franc have found the advantag of up the speed of broadband. in south korea, video-on-demand over the net is cheaper than rent a dvd and onlin game is huge. mr stene believ the servic will appeal to peopl in multi-occup build as well as eas famili argument. "a typic famili with two adult and two children is current share a 512 kilobit servic. thi will basic give them 2 megabit each," he said.
