row brew over peer-to-peer ad

music download network ar prove popular not just with an audienc of youngster keen to take advantag of free music but with advertis equal keen to reach out to a captiv audienc.

the debat over the legitimaci of file-share network rage on as the music industri continu it threat to close the servic down for good. meanwhil the million of download ar prove both an advertis's dream come true and a brand nightmar. paul myer, chief execut of wippit - a peer to peer servic which provid paid-for music download - believ it is time advertis stop provid 'oxygen' for compani that support illeg download. "you mai be surpris to know that current advertis on the most popular peer to peer servic edonkei who now steadfastli support copyright theft with real cash monei includ nat west, vodafon, o2, first direct, ntl, and renault," he said in an open letter to the british phonograph industri last month.

he urg peopl to follow hi lead and 'dump' brand associ with compani such as edonkei. the bpi is equal quick to condemn establish brand becom bedfellow with peer to peer network. 'network like edonkei, kazaa and grokster facilit illeg fileshar. the bpi strongli believ that ani reput compani should look carefulli at the support thei ar give these network through their advertis revenu," it said in a statement. "illeg file-sharer steal million of pound worth of music through these servic. we ar sure that the compani advertis on them would not put up with theft on such a scale from their own busi," it said. but the issu is often more complic for advertis, said mark mulligan, a music analyst with jupit research. "thi ha been a problem for a long time, ever sinc the dai of napster," he told the bbc new websit.

the realiti is that the million of download repres a veri attract audienc. "advertis probabl pai a lot less for put ad here than on more respect site and thei ar reach the perfect target audienc," he said. "if you put the legal issu asid, not to advertis here would mean miss out on a valuabl audienc," he ad. meanwhil compani contact by the bbc new websit insist that thei were not directli awar of where their ad have been appear. onetel advert were spot on edonkei thi week and it respons wa typic. "we have investig thi matter and believ that on of our affili partner ha place thi advert without our knowledg. it is not our polici to advertis through peer-to-peer network," read a statement from the discount phone firm. it ha request the advert be remov immedi, said a spokeswoman. similarli telecommun firm ntl blame it media bui agenc which place advert with third parti network featur thousand of site. sinc the matter wa brought to it attent last month, the agenc ha strict instruct to make sure ad do not appear on such site, a spokesman told the bbc new websit.

howev mr mulligan wa not entir convinc by these explan. while smaller brand might not necessarili be awar of where the monei thei alloc to onlin advertis actual end, thi is no excus for well-known brand, he said. "i would be surpris if these brand didn't have the know-how to prevent thi happen," he said. at the moment edonkei is enjoi the benefit of have some veri well-known face advert on it network. "mani big brand have leverag the opportun, includ perhap two of the biggest brand in the world - senat john kerri and presid georg w. bush," said chief execut sam yagan. there ar some distinct advantag of advertis on such a network, he think. "peer-to-peer client offer big brand a uniqu opportun to engag with their custom where thei're most comfort: at their desk interact with their favourit digit media," he said.
