mobil pictur power in your pocket

how mani time have you want to have a camera to hand to catch an unexpect event that would make headlin?

with a modern mobil phone that ha a camera built in, you no longer need to curs, you can captur the action as it happen. alreadi on-the-spot snapper ar help newspap add immediaci to their break new stori headlin, where profession photograph onli arriv in time for the aftermath. celebr might not welcom such a chang becaus thei mai never be free of a new breed of mobil phone paparazzi make their live a bit more difficult. alreadi on tabloid newspap in la is issu photograph with camera phone to help them catch celebr at plai. it could be the start of a trend that onli increas as higher resolut phone camera becom more widespread; as video phone catch on and million of peopl start carri the gadget around.

onli last week, the world media highlight the kill of the dutch film maker theo van gogh, notori after make a controversi film about islam cultur.

on dai later de telegraaf, a daili amsterdam newspap, becam new on it own when it publish a pictur taken with a mobil phone of mr van gogh's bodi moment after he wa kill. "thi pictur wa the stori", said de telegraaf's imag editor, peter schoonen. other account of such pictur phone user wit new event, includ:


 - a flight from switzerland to the dominican republ which turn around after someon took a pictur of a piec of metal fall from the plane as it took off from zurich (report by the swiss daili le matin). 
 - two crook who rob a bank in denmark were snap befor thei carri out the crime wait for the door of the build to be open (report by the danish region paper aarhu stiftstidend). 
 

but thi is not just about tradit media lend immediaci to their stori with content from ordinari peopl, it is also about first-hand journal in the form of onlin diari or weblog.

it ha been call "open sourc new" or even "moblog journal" and it ha flourish in the recent us elect campaign. "not mani peopl walk around with their camera, but thei alwai have their mobil phone with them. if someth happen, suddenli all these mobil sort of appear from nowher, and start take pictur," said digit artist henri reichhold. he himself us mobil phone pictur to creat huge panoram imag of event and place. "you see it in bar, you see it everywher. it's a massiv thing," mr reichhold told the bbc new websit.

with some pictur agenc alreadi pai for exclus phone pictur, especi of celebr, there ar also fear about the possibl downsid of thi phenomenon.

it could becom a nuisanc for public figur as higher resolut pictur phone hit the market, with five megapixel model alreadi be launch in asia. alreadi on us photojourn site, buzznet, there is a public album full of snap of celebr, mani of which were taken with camera phone. tabloid newspap in the uk and mani monthli magazin invit reader to send in imag of famou peopl thei have seen and snap. but there ar other posit us of pictur mobil phone that mai balanc these us. for instanc, in alabama, in the us, camera phone will be us to take snap at crime scene involv children, and help the author to arrest and prosecut paedophil. and in china's capit beij, court have adopt mobil phone photo as formal evid. for henri reichhold, thi is progress: "that's the whole thing about the immediaci of the thing. i can see that happen a lot more."
