million to miss out on the net

by 2025, 40% of the uk's popul will still be without internet access at home, sai a studi.

around 23 million briton will miss out on a wide rang of essenti servic such as educ and medic inform, predict the report by telecom giant bt. it compar to 27 million, or 50%, of the uk, who ar not current onlin. the idea that the digit divid will evapor with time is "wish think", the report conclud.

the studi call on the govern and telecom industri to come up with new wai to lure those that have been bypass by the digit revolut. although the percentag of briton without home access will have fallen slightli, those that remain digit refusenik will miss out on more, the report suggest. as more and more everydai task move onlin and offlin servic becom less comprehens, the divid will becom more obviou and more burdensom for those that have not got net access, it predict.

the gap between "have-net" and "have-not" ha been much talk about, but predict about how such a divid will affect futur gener ha been less discuss. bt set out to predict futur pattern base on current inform and take account of the wai technolog is chang. optimist who predict that converg and the emerg of more user-friendli technolog will bridg the digit divid could be wai off mark, the report suggest. "internet access on other devic tend to be someth taken up by those who alreadi have it," said adrian hosford, director of corpor respons at bt. cost of internet access have fallen dramat and coverag in remot area have vastli improv over the last year but the real barrier remain psycholog. "there is a hard rump of have-not who ar not engag with the net. thei don't have the motiv or skill or perceiv the benefit," said mr hosford.

as now, the most disadvantag group ar like to remain among low incom famili, the older gener and the disabl.

those on low incom will account for a quarter of the digit have-not, the disabl will make up 16% and the elderli nearli a third by 2025, the report forecast. organis such as bt have a respons to help tackl the problem, said mr hosford. the telco ha seen posit result with it everybodi onlin project which offer internet access to peopl in eight depriv commun around britain. in on area of cornwal with high level of unemploy, onlin train help peopl rewrit cv and learn skill to get new job, explain mr hosford. such grassroot activ address the specif need of individu commun is essenti is the problem of the digit divid is to be overcom, he said. "if we don't address thi problem now, it will get a lot wors and peopl will find it more difficult to find job, educ opportun will be limit and thei'll simpli not be abl to keep up with societi," he said. the allianc for digit inclus, an independ bodi with member drawn from govern, industri and the voluntari sector ha recent been set up to tackl some of the issu face by the digit refusenik.
