lifestyl 'govern mobil choic'

faster, better or funkier hardwar alon is not go to help phone firm sell more handset, research suggest.

instead, phone firm keen to get more out of their custom should not just be push the technolog for it own sake. consum ar far more interest in how handset fit in with their lifestyl than thei ar in screen size, onboard memori or the chip insid, show an in-depth studi by handset maker ericsson. "histor in the industri there ha been too much focu on us technolog," said dr michael bjorn, senior advisor on mobil media at ericsson's consum and enterpris lab. "we have to stop sai that these technolog will chang their live," he said. "we should try to speak to consum in their own languag and help them see how it fit in with what thei ar do," he told the bbc new websit.

for the studi, ericsson interview 14,000 mobil phone owner on the wai thei us their phone. "peopl's habit remain the same," said dr bjorn. "thei just move the activ into the mobil phone as it's a much more conveni wai to do it."

on good exampl of thi wa diari-write among younger peopl, he said. while diari have alwai been popular, a mobil phone -- especi on equip with a camera -- help them keep it in a differ form. youngster' us of text messag also reflect their desir to chat and keep in contact with friend and again just let them do it in a slightli chang wai. dr bjorn said that although consum do what thei alwai did but us a phone to do it, the sheer varieti of what the new handset technolog make possibl doe gradual drive new habit and lifestyl. ericsson's research ha shown that consum divid into differ "tribe" that us phone in differ wai. dr bjorn said group dub "pioneer" and "materialist" were most interest in try new thing and were behind the start of mani trend in phone us. "for instanc," he said, "older peopl ar us sm much more than thei did five year ago." thi wa becaus younger user, often the children of ag mobil owner, encourag older peopl to try it so thei could keep in touch.

anoth factor govern the speed of chang in mobil phone us wa the simpl speed with which new devic ar bought by pioneer and materialist. onli when about 25% of peopl have handset with new innov on them, such as camera, can consum stop worri that if thei send a pictur messag the person at the other end will be abl to see it.

onc thi signific number of user is pass, us of new innov tend to take off. dr bjorn said that earli report of camera phone usag in japan seem to impli that the innov wa go to be a flop. howev, he said, now 45% of the japanes peopl ericsson question us their camera phone at least onc a month. in 2003 the figur wa 29%. similarli, across europ the number of peopl take snap with camera is start to rise. in 2003 onli 4% of the peopl in the uk took a phonecam snap at least onc a month. now the figur is 14%. similar rise have been seen in mani other european nation. dr bjorn said that peopl also us their camera phone in veri differ wai to film and even digit camera. "usag pattern for digit camera ar almost exactli replac usag pattern for analogu camera," he said. digit camera tend to be us on signific event such as wed, holidai and birthdai. by contrast, he said, camera phone were be us much more to captur a moment and were be woven into everydai life.
