search site get closer to user

search site want to get to know you better.

not content with provid access to the million of websit, mani now offer wai that do a better job of rememb, catalogu and manag all the inform you come across. some of the latest to updat their search system ar ask jeev and blinkx, which have both releas a seri of util that try to help peopl get more from the web. "the futur is all about develop your own person web," said toni macklin, spokesman for ask jeev.

mr macklin said that too often when peopl us a search engin it wa like the first time thei ever us it, becaus there wa no memori of what thei had search for befor. "each time you go back in you have to start all over again," he said. the seri of updat to it servic, collect under the my ask jeev banner, would help peopl rememb where thei had been befor.

ask jeev ha ad the abil to "save" websit of interest so the next time a user visit the site thei can search through the site thei have previous found. site save in thi wai can be arrang in folder and have note attach to them to explain why thei were save. mr macklin said mani peopl want to save site thei had seen but did not want to add them to their bookmark or favourit not least becaus such list cannot be easili search. on averag, said mr macklin, user conduct between five and 10 search per dai and the tool in my ask jeev should stop them have to do search twice and get to what thei want much more easili. under my ask jeev user can search the web or through the result thei have alreadi note as interest. "it's about find again what you found befor," he said. the my ask jeev servic let peopl store up to a 1000 web link or 5000 if thei sign up to the free servic. by wai of comparison googl's desktop search tool catalogu search histori inform and let peopl look through the site thei have visit.

at the same time, search start-up blinkx ha releas a second version of it eponym softwar. blinkx is desktop search softwar that watch what someon is work on, be it a document or e-mail, and suggest websit, video clip, blog or document on a pc that ar relev to it.

sinc blinkx launch it ha face increas competit from firm such as googl, copern, enfish, x1 and appl all of whom now have program that let peopl search their pc as well as the web. "the competit ha valid the problem we tackl," said suranga chandratillak, co-founder of blinkx. in the latest releas of blinkx, the compani ha ad what it call smart folder. onc creat the folder act as persist queri that automat sweep the web for page relat to their subject and catalogu relev inform, document or incom e-mail, on hard drive too. what user do with blinkx and other desktop search engin show that peopl tend to be veri promiscu in their us of search engin. "blinkx user do not stop us other web search system," he said. "thei might us googl to look up a compani, or yahoo for travel becaus thei know thei ar good at that," he said. "the classic thing we have seen recent, is peopl us blinkx to look at the thing thei have search on," he said. the varieti of wai to search data wa onli help user, said mr chandratillak and that it wa like that in the futur peopl would us differ on for differ task.
