anti-spam screensav scrap

a contenti campaign to bump up the bandwidth bill of spammer by flood their site with data ha been drop.

lyco europ's make love, not spam campaign began in late novemb but it tactic prove controversi. lyco ha shut down the campaign sai it had been start to stimul debat about anti-spam measur and had now achiev thi aim. the anti-spammer screensav came under fire for encourag vigilant activ and skirt the edg of the law.

through the make love, not spam websit, user could download a screensav that would endlessli request data from the net site mention in mani junk mail messag. more than 100,000 peopl ar thought to have download the screensav that lyco europ offer.

the compani want to keep the spam site run at near total capac to make it much less financi attract to spammer to oper the site. but the campaign wa controversi from the moment it kick off and mani net veteran criticis it for us spam-type tactic against the sender of junk mail. some net servic firm began block access to the lyco europ site in protest at the action. monitor firm netcraft found that the anti-spam campaign wa prove a littl too success. accord to respons-time figur gather by netcraft, some of the site that the screensav target were be knock offlin by the constant data request. in a statement from lyco europ announc the scrap of the scheme, the compani deni that thi wa it fault. "there is noth to suggest that make love, not spam ha brought down ani of the site that it ha target," it said. "at the time that netcraft measur the site it claim mai have been brought down, thei were not in fact part of the make love, not spam attack cycl," it ad. the statement issu by lyco also said that the centralis databas it us ensur that traffic to the target site left them with 5% spare capac. "the idea wa simpli to slow spammer' site and thi wa achiev by the campaign," the compani said. mani secur organis said user should not particip in the lyco europ campaign. the closur come onli dai after the campaign wa suspend follow the outbreak of critic.
