tv futur in the hand of viewer

with home theatr system, plasma high-definit tv, and digit video record move into the live room, the wai peopl watch tv will be radic differ in five year' time.

that is accord to an expert panel which gather at the annual consum electron show in la vega to discuss how these new technolog will impact on of our favourit pastim. with the us lead the trend, programm and other content will be deliv to viewer via home network, through cabl, satellit, telecom compani, and broadband servic provid to front room and portabl devic.

on of the most talk-about technolog of ce ha been digit and person video record (dvr and pvr). these set-top box, like the us's tivo and the uk's sky+ system, allow peopl to record, store, plai, paus and forward wind tv programm when thei want.

essenti, the technolog allow for much more personalis tv. thei ar also be built-in to high-definit tv set, which ar big busi in japan and the us, but slower to take off in europ becaus of the lack of high-definit program. not onli can peopl forward wind through advert, thei can also forget about abid by network and channel schedul, put togeth their own a-la-cart entertain. but some us network and cabl and satellit compani ar worri about what it mean for them in term of advertis revenu as well as "brand ident" and viewer loyalti to channel. although the us lead in thi technolog at the moment, it is also a concern that is be rais in europ, particularli with the grow uptak of servic like sky+. "what happen here todai, we will see in nine month to a year' time in the uk," adam hume, the bbc broadcast's futurologist told the bbc new websit. for the like of the bbc, there ar no issu of lost advertis revenu yet. it is a more press issu at the moment for commerci uk broadcast, but brand loyalti is import for everyon. "we will be talk more about content brand rather than network brand," said tim hanlon, from brand commun firm starcom mediavest. "the realiti is that with broadband connect, anybodi can be the produc of content." he ad: "the challeng now is that it is hard to promot a programm with so much choic."

what thi mean, said stacei jolna, senior vice presid of tv guid tv group, is that the wai peopl find the content thei want to watch ha to be simplifi for tv viewer. it mean that network, in us term, or channel could take a leaf out of googl's book and be the search engin of the futur, instead of the schedul to help peopl find what thei want to watch. thi kind of channel model might work for the younger ipod gener which is us to take control of their gadget and what thei plai on them. but it might not suit everyon, the panel recognis. older gener ar more comfort with familiar schedul and channel brand becaus thei know what thei ar get. thei perhap do not want so much of the choic put into their hand, mr hanlon suggest. "on the other end, you have the kid just out of diaper who ar push button alreadi - everyth is possibl and avail to them," said mr hanlon. "ultim, the consum will tell the market thei want."

of the 50,000 new gadget and technolog be showcas at ce, mani of them ar about enhanc the tv-watch experi. high-definit tv set ar everywher and mani new model of lcd (liquid crystal displai) tv have been launch with dvr capabl built into them, instead of be extern box. on such exampl launch at the show is humax's 26-inch lcd tv with an 80-hour tivo dvr and dvd record. on of the us's biggest satellit tv compani, directtv, ha even launch it own brand dvr at the show with 100-hour of record capabl, instant replai, and a search function. the set can paus and rewind tv for up to 90 hour. and microsoft chief bill gate announc in hi pre-show keynot speech a partnership with tivo, call tivotogo, which mean peopl can plai record programm on window pc and mobil devic. all these reflect the increas trend of free up multimedia so that peopl can watch what thei want, when thei want.
