cyber crimin step up the pace

so-call phish attack that try to trick peopl into hand over confidenti detail have boom in 2004, sai secur expert.

the number of phish e-mail messag stop by secur firm messagelab ha risen more than tenfold in less than 12 month. in 2004 it detect more than 18 million phish e-mail messag. other statist show that in 2004 73% of all e-mail wa spam and on in 16 messag were infect with a viru.

in it end-of-year report, messagelab said that phish had becom the top secur threat and most popular form of attack among cyber crimin. in septemb 2003, messagelab caught onli 273 phish e-mail that tri to make peopl visit fake version of the websit run by real bank and financi organis. but by septemb 2004 it wa stop more than two million phish relat e-mail messag per month. worryingli, said the firm, phish gang were us increasingli sophist techniqu to harvest us inform such as login detail or person data.

older attack reli on user not spot the fact that the site thei were visit wa fake, but more recent phish e-mail simpli try to steal detail as soon as a messag is open. other phish scam try to recruit innoc peopl into act as middlemen for launder monei or good bought with stolen credit card. "e-mail secur attack remain unab in their persist and feroc," said mark sunner, chief technolog offic at messagelab. "in just 12 month phish ha firmli establish itself as a threat to ani organis or individu conduct busi onlin," he said. mr sunner said messagelab wa start to see some phish attack becom veri focus on on compani or organis. "alreadi particular busi ar threaten and blackmail, indic a shift from the random, scattergun approach, to customis attack design to take advantag of the perceiv weak of some busi," he said. although phish attack grew substanti throughout 2004, virus and spam remain popular with cyber-crimin and vandal. on of the biggest outbreak took place in januari when the mydoom viru start circul. to date the compani ha caught more than 60 million copi of the viru. also up thi year wa the amount of spam in circul. in 2003 onli 40% of messag were spam. but by the end of 2004, almost three-quarter of messag were junk.
