gritti return for princ of persia

still bask in the rel recent glori of last year's sand of time, the dash princ of persia is back in warrior within, and in a more bellicos mood than last time.

thi sequel give the franchis a grim, gritti new look and ramp up the action and violenc. as befor, you control the super-athlet princ from a third-person perspect. the time-travel plot hing on the dahaka, an all-consum monster pursu our hero through the ag. the onli wai to dispel it is to turn back the clock again and kill the sultri empress of time befor she ever creat the sand of time that caus the great beast's creation.

studious structur though thi back stori is, everyth boil down to old-fashion fantasi gameplai which prove, on the whole, as depend as it need to be. ever sinc the seri' then-groundbreak begin on the commodor amiga, princ of persia ha alwai been about meticul-anim acrobat move, that provid an energet blend of leap preposter between piec of sceneri and lop off enemi' bodi part.

those flashi move ar back in full evid, and tremend fun to perform and perfect. combin them at speed is the best fun, although get a handl of do so take practic and plenti of skill. until you reach that point, it is a haphazard busi. all too often, you will perform a stun tripl somersault, pirouett off a wall, knock out three enemi in on gloriou swoop, befor plummet purposefulli over a cliff to your doom. that in turn can mean get set back an annoyingli long distanc, for you can onli save at the fountain dot along the path. the expect fiendish puzzl ar all present and correct, but combat is what is realli been step up, and there is more of it than befor. the game's develop have combin acrobat flair with gruesom slai techniqu in some wonderfulli imagin wai. slice foe down the middl is on particularli entertain method of see them off.

warrior within is a veri slick packag; the game's intro movi is so phenomen good that it actual doe an ultim disservic onc the game itself commenc.

it is on a par with the jaw-drop open sequenc of onimusha 3 earlier thi year, and when the game begin, it is someth of an anti-climax. that said, the graphic ar excel, and inde among the most strike and satisfi element of the game. the music is probabl the worst aspect - a merit-free heavi metal soundtrack that you will swiftli want to turn off. there is someth strang unsatisfi about the game. perhap precis becaus it graphic and mechan ar so good that the stori and overal experi ar not quit as engag as thei should be. somehow it add up to less than the sum of it part, and is more technic impress than it is outright enjoy. but that is not to sai warrior within is anyth other than a superb adventur that most will thoroughli enjoi. it just doe not quit take the charact to the new height that might have been hope for.
