briton grow 'digit obes'

gadget lover ar so hungri for digit data mani ar carri the equival of 10 truck full of paper in "weight".

music, imag, e-mail, and text ar be hoard on mobil, camera laptop and pda (person digit assist), a toshiba studi found. it found that more than 60% kept 1,000 to 2,000 music file on their devic, make the uk "digit fat". "virtual weight" measur ar base on research by california institut of technolog professor roi william. he calcul physic comparison for digit data in the mid-1990s. he work out that on gigabyt (1,000,000,000 byte) wa the equival of a pick-up truck fill with paper. the amount of data peopl ar squirrel awai on their gadget is clearli a sign that peopl ar find more thing to do with their shini thing.

if digit hoard habit continu on thi scale, peopl could be carri around a "digit obes" 20 gigabyt by next year. "britain ha becom a nation of inform hoarder with a feroci appetit for data," said martin larsson, gener manag of toshiba's european storag devic divis.

"as storag capabl increas and the featur and function of mobil devic expand to support movi file and entir librari of multi-media content, we will all becom virtual obes," he told the bbc new websit. the survei reflect the increas trend for portabl devic with built-in hard drive like music and media player from appl, creativ lab, archo, iriv and other. thi trend is set to grow, accord to analyst. thei suggest the number of hard drive in consum electron gadget could grow from 17 million last year to 55 million in 2006. "consum ar drive the move toward smaller devic that have greater function, and industri is try to keep up," said mr larsson. "peopl ar look for more than just phone call and text messag on the move, thei want thing like web brows, e-mail, music, photo and more."

mani ar find memori kei and memori stick ar simpli not big enough to hold everyth.

"floppi and memori kei have their place, but thei don't have anyth like the capac or flexibl of a hard drive so ar unabl to meet the demand for more and more storag capac in consum devic," said mr larsson. the cost of make hard drive ha drop and is continu to do so becaus of improv technolog so thei ar prove to be more cost-effect than other form of memori, he ad. the amount of data that can be store ha grown by 400% in the last three year, while the cost for everi gigabyt ha fallen by 80%. it is also get easier to transfer file from on devic to anoth, which ha tradition been a slow and problemat area. "transfer of data between differ memori type ha improv significantli in recent time, and will be further help by the standard for hard drive which ar current be develop by the major manufactur," said mr larsson. accord to technolog analyst idc, a fifth of all hard drive produc will be us in consum electron by 2007.
