media gadget get move

pocket-size devic that let peopl carri around video and imag ar set to have a big year in 2005, accord to industri expert.

last year saw the emerg of portabl media player, such as the window-base creativ zen portabl media player, the samsung yepp, the iriv pmc-100, and the archo av400 seri among other. but thi year, thei ar set to get smarter and more connect, to allow peopl to find more video to watch on them. archo launch it latest rang of it linux-base portabl media devic at the consum electron show in la vega on fridai. dub the pocket media assist pma430, it crucial ha wi-fi capabl built-in for the first time. "consum ar show a great thirst for devic that store all their media in on place for anywher access," said henri croha, chief of archo. "and now those consum can stai connect and product at the same time." archo said the focu for the devic is to be the second gadget in peopl's pocket, after the mobil.

unlik window-base player, the archo av400 seri devic have alwai been abl to record from ani video sourc, such as tv, as well as playback. the content put onto the devic is copi protect so cannot then be swap to anoth devic.

record is perhap a crucial function for those who have not seen the point of portabl video if there is not a lot of video to watch on it. and wi-fi connect open up the possibl of content deliveri via a high-speed wireless link. archo also announc that it would open up the softwar develop kit to linux develop so that more applic could be creat for the devic. microsoft also made some announc in the portabl media arena at ce, primarili for us consum though. it ha agre a content deal with person video record compani tivo, which bill gate also showcas in hi keynot speech at ce. the tivo to go servic mean that us consum will be abl to take ani programm thei record on their tivo and transfer it for free to watch on ani of the window-base portabl media player or smartphon. it also said it had launch a servic with mtv to let peopl watch comedi central, vh1 and countri music tv on it devic. and a servic is launch with msn to provid peopl with shorten version of new, entertain and other video on a subscript basi for download via the pc onto the portabl devic. but the abil to record directli from tv, vcr, and digit cabl and satellit box, which window-base devic do not offer, certainli give peopl more content to watch on the go too.

the increas capabl of these devic, and the content deal that ar be done, mai go some wai to persuad peopl to us them. recent research by jupit suggest that peopl would prefer a devic that wa dedic to music. onli 13% of european want to watch video while on the move. more seem interest in spend their cash on music-onli devic.

"thi year, we ar readi for an explos of portabl media," microsoft's mike coleman told the bbc new websit. "we ar veri bullish about it. the fact that i can put photo on here too and share them is super-cool to the consum," he ad. the fact that european ar far larger public transport user than american is on reason why portabl media will take off in the come year too. there is a burgeon market there for commut to watch new and other programm on their wai to work. although microsoft's content distribut deal ar for the us market at the moment, talk were "alwai on-go" with european content supplier to offer similar servic. variou right manag issu have to be iron out first howev. but that doe not prevent peopl from find wai to creat their own content to share onlin and swap on portabl devic, particularli via those which ar wi-fi enabl. the possibl is open for non-profession maker of video and audio to take advantag of the grow portabl media market to distribut their work. ce, which run from 6 to 9 januari, showcas more than 50,000 new gadget that will be hit the shelv in 2005.
