satellit map aid darfur relief

aid worker try to hous, feed and cloth million of homeless refuge in the sudanes region of darfur ar get a help hand from advanc map technolog.

a european consortium of compani and univers group known as respond is work to provid accur and up to date map. the aim is to overcom some of the huge logist challeng in get suppli to where thei ar need. respond is us satellit imageri to produc accur map that can be us in the field rapidli. "respond ha produc veri detail map for exampl for the road network, for the river and for the villag, to more larg-scale map us for veri gener plan purpos," said einar bjorgo from unosat, the un satellit map organis that is part of the respond consortium.

the group us satellit from nasa, the european space agenc and the disast monitor constel. the satellit data is transmit to ground station. from there, the inform make it wai to respond organis that specialis in interpret such data. "you have to convert the data into imag, then the interpret ha to convert all thi into crisi, damag, or situat map," said stefan voigt, who work in the remot sens depart of on of those organis, the german aerospac centr.

thi kind of detail analysi usual take a coupl of month but respond get it done in about 12 hour. "our user ar usual not so much familiar with read satellit imageri, read satellit map, so it's our task to transfer the data into inform that non-technic peopl can read and understand easili and veri, veri effici," said mr voigt. respond suppli map to aid group via the web, and on compact disc. but the best map is on you can hold in your hand, especi in remot area where internet connect and laptop ar scarc. "a map is a work document," explain herbert hansen of respond's belgian partner keyob. "you need to us it, you need to write on it, correct, give feedback and so on, so you need paper to write on. "we print map, we lamin the map, we encapsul the map if need so you can take a shower with the map, it's complet protect."

humanitarian group in darfur have been make good us of respond's map. thei have come in especi handi dure sudan's raini season, when normal dry riverb, or wadi, becam flood. "these wadi had a veri small amount of flood, gener, in term of depth, but greatli imped the transport capabl and capac of the humanitarian group on the ground," sai stephen candillon of respond imag partner sertit. respond's rapid imag ha allow aid group to find wai around the wadi, allow then to mark on their map which road were wash out at which time. aid group sai that combin of satellit technolog and on-the-ground observ help keep relief flow to those who need it.

clark boyd is technolog correspond for the world, a bbc world servic and wgbh-boston co-product
