spam e-mail tempt net shopper

comput user across the world continu to ignor secur warn about spam e-mail and ar be lure into bui good, a report suggest.

more than a quarter have bought softwar through spam e-mail and 24% have bought cloth or jewelleri. as well as profit from sell good or servic and drive advertis traffic, organis crime ring can us spam to glean person inform. the busi softwar allianc (bsa) warn that peopl should "stai alert". "mani onlin consum don't consid the true motiv of spammer," said mike newton, a spokesperson for the bsa which commiss the survei.

"by sell softwar that appear to be legitim in genuin look packag or through sophist websit, spammer ar hide spywar without consum' knowledg. "onc the softwar is instal on pc and network, inform that is given over the internet can be obtain and abus."

the result also show that the proport of peopl read - or admit to read - and take advantag of adult entertain spam e-mail is low, at on in 10. the research, which cover 6,000 peopl in six countri and their attitud toward junk e-mail, reveal that brazilian were the most like to read spam. a third of them read unsolicit junk e-mail and 66% bui good or servic after receiv spam.

the french were the second most like to bui someth (48%), with 44% of briton take advantag of product and servic. thi wa despit 38% of peopl in all countri be worri about their net secur becaus of the amount of spam thei get. more than a third of respond said thei were concern that spam e-mail contain virus or program that attempt to collect person inform. "both industri and the media have help to rais awar of the issu that surround illegitim e-mail, help to reduc the potenti financi damag and nuisanc from phish attack and spoof websit," said william plant, director of corpor secur and fraud protect at secur firm symantec. "at the same time, consum need to continu exercis caution and protect themselv from harm with a mixtur of spam filter, spywar detect softwar and sound judgement."
