more power to the peopl sai hp

the digit revolut is focus on let peopl tell and share their own stori, accord to carli fiorina, chief of technolog giant hewlett packard.

the job of firm such as hp now, she said in a speech at the consum electron show (ce), wa to ensur digit and physic world fulli converg. she said the goal for 2005 wa to make peopl the centr of technolog. ce showcas 50,000 new gadget that will be hit the shelv in 2005. the tech-fest, the largest of it kind in the world, run from 6 to 9 januari. "the digit revolut is about the democratis of technolog and the experi it make possibl," she told deleg. "revolut ha alwai been about give power to the peopl." she ad: "the real stori of the digit revolut is not just new product, but the million of experi made possibl and stori that million can tell." part of give peopl more control ha been about the free up of content, such as imag, video and music. crucial to thi ha been the effort to make devic that speak to each other better so that content can be more easili transfer from on devic, such as a digit camera, to other, such as portabl media player. a lot of work still need to be done, howev, to sort out compat issu and standard within the technolog industri so that gadget just work seamlessli, she said.

ms fiorina's talk also tout the wai technolog is be design to focu on lifestyl, fashion and personalis, someth she see as kei to what peopl want.

special guest, singer gwen stefani, join her on-stage to promot her own rang of hp digit camera which ms stefani ha help design and which ar heavili influenc by japanes youth cultur. the digit camera, which ar due to go on sale in the us by the summer, ar base on the hp 607 model. the emphasi on personalis and lifestyl is a big theme at thi year's ce, with tini, wearabl mp3 player at everi turn and rainbow hue give colour to everyth. ms fiorina also announc that hp wa work with nokia to launch a visual radio servic for mobil, which would launch in europ earli thi year. the servic will let peopl listen to radio on their mobil and download relev content, like a track's rington, simultan. the servic is design to make mobil radio more interact.

among the other new product she showcas wa the digit media hub, a big upgrad to hp's digit entertain centr. come out in the autumn in the us, the box is a network, high-definit tv, cabl set-top box, digit video record and dvd record. it ha a remov hard drive cartridg, memori card slot, and light scribe label softwar which let peopl design and print customis dvd label and cover. it is design to contain all a household's digit media, such as pre-record tv show, pictur, video and music so it can all be manag in on place. the hub reflect the increas move to re-box the pc so that it can work as part of other kei centr of entertain. research suggest that about 258 million imag ar save and share everi dai, equat to 94 billion a year. eighti per cent of those remain on camera. media hub ar design to encourag peopl to organis them on on box. ms fiorina wa on of sever keynot speaker, who also includ microsoft chief bill gate, to set out what major technolog compani think peopl will be do with technolog and gadget in the next 12 month. in a separ announc dure the keynot speech, ms fiorina said that hp would be partner mtv to replac thi year's mtv asia music award. mtv's asia aid will be held in bangkok on 3 februari, and is aim at help to rais monei for the asian tsunami disast.
