robot pod take on car design

a new breed of wearabl robot vehicl that envelop driver ar be develop by japanes car giant toyota.

the compani's vision for the singl passeng in the 21st centuri involv the driver cruis by in a four-wheel leaf-like devic or stroll along encas in an egg-shape cocoon that walk upright on two feet. both these prototyp will be demonstr, along with other concept vehicl and helper robot, at the toyota stand at the expo 2005 in aichi, japan, in march 2005. the model ar be posit as so-call person mobil devic, which have few limit. the open leaf-like "i-unit" vehicl is the latest version of the concept which the compani introduc last year. built us environment friendli plant-base materi, the singl passeng unit is equip with intellig transport system technolog that allow for safe autopilot drive in special equip lane. the model allow the user to make tight on-the-spot turn, move upright amongst other peopl at low speed and can be easili switch into a reclin posit at higher speed. bodi colour can be custom to suit individu prefer and a person recognit system offer both inform and music.

also on displai at the show will be the egg-shape "i-foot". thi is a two-leg mountabl robot like devic that can be control with a joystick.

stand at a height of well over seven feet (2.1 metr), the unit can walk along at a speed of about 1.35km/h (0.83mph) and navig staircas into the bargain. mount and dismount is accomplish with the aid of the bird-like leg that bend over backward. "thei ar clearli what we call concept vehicl, innov idea which have yet to be transform into potenti product and which ar a few year awai from actual product," said dr david gillingwat from the transport studi group at loughborough univers. "thei clearli have ey-catch appeal, which is in part the name of the game here, and ar link to the imac and ipod-type nich which appl have been respons for develop and lead in recent year - new, differ, hi-tech, imag consciou product. "as alwai with these concept vehicl, it is difficult to see 'who' thei would appeal to and what their role would be in the 'person transport' marketplac."

the person transport arena is take on a new dimens though with futurist devic that augment human capabl. toyota's prototyp repres the latest incarn of wearabl exoskeleton in a vehicular form that is special focus on transport. power robot exoskeleton have been the focu of much us militari research over the year and japan seem to have jump onto the bandwagon with a wave of product be develop for specif applic. with an emerg rang of devic target toward the ag world popul, care give and the militari, wearabl exoskeleton seem to repres a new line of futur technolog that meet an individu's particular mobil need. while toyota's prototyp ar gear toward mass transport, the compani sai that the vehicl will allow the elderli and the disabl to achiev independ mobil.

expert, though, ar a bit sceptic of their accept in thi area.

"those with arguabl the greatest need for thi sort of assist, now and certainli in the futur, ar the elderli and infirm peopl," dr gillingwat told the bbc new websit. "you have to ask whether these sort of vehicl will appeal to these group." design consider also exist. dr erel avineri, of the centr for transport and societi at the univers of the west of england in bristol said: "the design of the introduc mobil devic is not complet adjust to the specif need of the elderli and the disabl. "for exampl, on problem that mani older passeng experi is limit abil to rotat the neck and upper bodi, make it difficult to look to the side and back when back up. "it look like the visual design of the devic interior doe not consid thi need. thi and other human-factor relat issu in the design of such devic ar not the onli issu that should be consid," said dr avineri. "in gener, introduc a new technolog requir the passeng to chang behaviour pattern that have serv the older passeng for decad. elderli user might not necessarili accept such innov. "thi mai be anoth barrier to the commerci success of such a vehicl." such singl-person vehicl mai find a rel small market nich and mai be more suit toward specialis applic rather than revolutionis the face of mass transport. "the concept of person mobil behind these sort of innov is great but thei beg a huge number of question," said dr gillingwat. "what's their rang? how user-friendli will thei realli be? what infrastructur will be requir to allow these vehicl to be us. "overal i think these vehicl pose a number of import question than provid answer or solut."
