parent face video game lesson

wai of ensur that parent know which video game ar suitabl for children ar to be consid by the game industri.

the issu wa discuss at a meet between uk govern offici, industri repres and the british board of film classif. it follow concern that children mai be plai game aim at adult which includ high level of violenc. in 2003, briton spent £1,152m on game, more than ever befor. and thi christma, parent ar expect to spend million on video game and consol.

violent game have been hit by controversi after the game manhunt wa blame by the parent of 14-year-old stefan pakeerah, who wa stab to death in leicest in februari. hi mother, gisel, said her son's killer, warren leblanc, 17 - who wa jail for life in septemb - had mimick behaviour in the game.

polic investig stefan's murder dismiss it influenc and said manhunt wa not part of it legal case. the issu of warn on game for adult wa rais on sundai by trade and industri secretari patricia hewitt. thi wa the focu of the talk between govern offici, repres from the game industri and the british board of film classif. "adult can make inform choic about what game to plai. children can't and thei deserv to be protect," said cultur secretari tessa jowel after the meet. "industri will consid how to make sure parent know what game their children should and shouldn't plai." roger bennett, director gener of entertain and leisur softwar publish associ, said: "a number of initi were discuss at the meet. "thei will be formul to creat specif propos to promot greater understand, recognit and awar of the game rate system, ensur that young peopl ar not expos to inappropri content."

among the possibl measur could be a campaign to explain to parent that mani game ar made for an adult audienc, as well as chang to the label of the game themselv.

accord to industri statist, a major of player ar over 18, with the averag ag of a gamer be 29. academ point out that there ha not been ani definit research link bloodthirsti game such as manhunt with violent respons in player. in a report publish thi week for the video standard council, dr gui cumberbatch said: "the research evid on media violenc caus harm to viewer is wildli exagger and doe not stand up to scrutini." dr cumberbatch, head of the social polici think tank, the commun research group, review the studi on the issu. he conclud that there wa an absenc of convinc research that media violenc caus harm.
