mobil multimedia slow to catch on

there is no doubt that mobil phone sport camera and colour screen ar huge popular. consum swap old phone for slinkier, dinkier version ar thought to be respons for a 26% increas in the number of phone sold dure the third quarter of 2004, accord to analyst gartner more than 167 million handset were sold between juli and septemb 2004, a period that, accord to gartner analyst carolina milanesi is "seldom strong". but although consum have mobil that can take and send snap, sound and video clip few, so far, ar take the chanc to do so.

in fact, the number of peopl not take and send pictur, audio and video is grow. figur gather by continent research show that 36% of british camera phone user have never sent a multimedia messag (mm), up from 7% in 2003. thi is despit the fact that, dure the same period, the number of camera phone in the uk more than doubl to 7.5 million. get mobil phone user to send multimedia messag is realli import for oper keen to squeez more cash out of their custom and offset the cost of subsidis the handset peopl ar bui. the problem thei face, said shailendra jain, head of mm firm adamind, is educ peopl in how to send the multimedia messag us their funki handset.

"also," he said, "thei have to simplifi the interfac so it not rocket scienc in term of someon understand it." research bear out the suspicion that peopl ar not send multimedia messag becaus thei do not know how to. accord to continent research, 29% of the peopl it question said thei were technophob that tend to shy awai from innov. onli 11% regard themselv as technic savvi enough to send a pictur or video messag. the fact that multimedia servic ar not interoper across network and phone onli add to peopl's reluct to start send them, said mr jain. "thei ask themselv: 'if i'm stream video from on handset to anoth will it work?'" he said. "there's a lot of user apprehens about that."

there ar other deeper technic reason why multimedia messag ar not be push as strongli as thei might. andrew bud, execut chairman of messag firm mblox, said mobil phone oper cap the number of messag that can be circul at ani on time for fear of overwhelm the system. "the rate we can send mm into the mobil network is fairli constant," he said. the reason for thi is that there ar finit capac for data traffic on the second gener network that current have the most user.

no-on want to take the risk of swamp these rel narrow channel so the number of mm messag is cap, said mr bud. thi ha led to oper find other technolog, particularli on known as wap-push, to get multimedia to their custom. but when network do find a good wai to get multimedia to their custom, the result can be dramat. isra technolog firm celltick ha found a wai to broadcast data across phone network in a wai that doe not overwhelm exist bandwidth. on of the first firm to us the celltick servic is hutch india, the largest mobil firm in the countri. the broadcast system get multimedia to custom via a roll menu far faster than would be possibl with other system. while not multimedia messag, such a system get peopl us to see their phone as a devic that can handl all differ type of content. as a result 40% of the subscrib to the hutch aliv, which us celltick's broadcast technolog, regularli click for more pictur, sound and imag from the oper. "oper realli need to start utilis thi tool to reach their custom," said yaron toren, spokesman for celltick. until then, multimedia will be a messag that is not get through.
