internet boom for gift shop

cyberspac is becom a veri popular destin for christma shopper.

forecast predict that british peopl will spend £4bn bui gift onlin dure the festiv season, an increas of 64% on 2003. survei also show that the averag amount that peopl ar spend is rise, as is the rang of good that thei ar happi to bui onlin. savvi shopper ar also us the net to find the hot present that ar all but sold out in high street store.

almost half of the uk popul now shop onlin accord to figur collect by the interact media in retail group which repres web retail. about 85% of thi group, 18m peopl, expect to do a lot of their christma gift bui onlin thi year, report the industri group. on averag each shopper will spend £220 and briton lead europ in their affect for onlin shop.

almost a third of all the monei spent onlin thi christma will come out of british wallet and purs compar to 29% from german shopper and onli 4% from italian gift buyer. jame roper, director of the imrg, said shopper were now much happier to bui so-call big ticket item such as lcd televis set and digit camera. mr roper ad that mani retail were work hard to reassur consum that onlin shop wa safe and that good order as present would arriv in time for christma. he advis consum to give shop a littl more time than usual to fulfil order given that onlin bui is prove so popular. a survei by hostwai suggest that mani men prefer to shop onlin to avoid the embarrass of bui some type of present, such as lingeri, for wive and girlfriend. much of thi onlin shop is like to be done dure work time, accord to research carri out by secur firm saint bernard softwar. the research reveal that up to two work dai will be lost by staff who do their shop via their work comput. worst offend will be those in the 18-35 ag bracket, suggest the research, who will spend up to five hour per week in decemb brows and bui at onlin shop.

iggi fanlo, chief revenu offic at shop.com, said that the grow number of peopl us broadband wa drive interest in onlin shop. "when you consid narrowband and broadband the convers to sale is two time higher," he said. higher speed meant that everyth happen much faster, he said, which let peopl spend time brows and find out about product befor thei bui.

the behaviour of onlin shopper wa also chang, he said. "the singl biggest reason peopl went onlin befor thi year wa price," he said. "the number on reason now is conveni." "veri few consum click on the lowest price," he said. "thei ar look for good price and merchant reliabl." consum comment and review were also prove popular with shopper keen to find out who had the most reliabl custom servic. data collect by ebai suggest that some smart shopper ar get round the shortag of hot present by bui them direct through the auction site. accord to ebai uk there ar now more than 150 robosapien remot control robot for sale via the site. the robosapien toi is almost imposs to find in onlin and offlin store. similarli mani shopper ar turn to ebai to help them get hold of the hard-to-find slimlin playstat 2, which mani retail ar onli sell as part of an expens bundl. the high demand for the playstat 2 ha meant that price for it ar be driven up. in shop the ps2 is suppos to sell for £104.99. in some ebai uk auction the price ha risen to more than doubl thi figur. mani peopl ar also us ebai to get hold of gadget not even releas in thi countri. the portabl version of the playstat ha onli just gone on sale in japan yet some enterpris ebai user ar sell the devic to uk gadget fan.
