googl to scan famou librari

the librari of five of the world's most import academ institut ar to be digitis by googl.

scan page from book in the public domain will then be made avail for search and read onlin. the full librari of michigan and stanford univers, as well as archiv at harvard, oxford and the new york public librari ar includ. onlin page from scan book will not have advert but will have link to onlin store amazon, googl said.

"the goal of the project is to unlock the wealth of inform that is offlin and bring it onlin," said susan wojcicki, director of product manag at googl.

there will also be link to public librari so that the book can be borrow. googl will not be paid for provid for the link. it will take six year to digitis the full collect at michigan, which contain seven million volum. user will onli have access to extract and bibliographi of copyright work. the new york librari is allow googl to includ a small portion of book no longer cover by copyright.

harvard is limit it particip to 40,000 book, while oxford want googl to scan book origin publish in the 19th centuri and held in the bodleian librari. a spokeswoman for oxford univers said the digitis book would includ novel, poetri, polit tract and art book. "import work that ar out of print or onli avail in a few librari around the world will be made avail to everyon," she said. about on million book will be scan by googl, less than 15% of the total collect held in the bodleian. "we hope that oxford's contribut to thi project will be of scholarli us, as well as gener interest, to peopl around the world," said reg carr, director of oxford univers librari servic.

"it's a signific opportun to bring our materi to the rest of the world," said paul leclerc, presid of the new york public librari. "it could solv an old problem: if peopl can't get to us, how can we get to them?" "thi is the dai the world chang," said john wilkin, a univers of michigan librarian work with googl. "it will be disrupt becaus some peopl will worri that thi is the begin of the end of librari. "but thi is someth we have to do to revitalis the profess and make it more meaning."
