set your televis to wow

televis start off as a magic blurri imag. then came the sharp, the colour and the widescreen format. now the tv set is take anoth leap forward into a crystal clear futur, although those in europ will have to be patient.

after year of buzz about high-definit tv (hdtv) it is final take off in a hand of countri around the world, mainli the us and japan. if you believ the hype, then hdtv will so wow you, that you will never want to go back to your old telli. "hdtv is just the latest must-have technolog in viewer' home," sai jo flaherti, a senior broadcast with the cb network in the us. all televis imag ar made up of pixel, go across the screen, and scan line go down. british tv pictur ar made up of 625 line and about 700 pixel. by contrast, hdtv offer up to 1,080 activ line, with each line made up of 1,920 pixel. the result is a pictur which can be up to six time as sharp as standard tv. but to get the full impact, programm need to be broadcast in thi format and you need a hdtv set to receiv them. most new comput displai ar alreadi capabl of handl high-resolut pictur. viewer in japan, the us, australia, canada and south korea ar alreadi embrac the new tv technolog, with a select of primetim programm be broadcast in the new format, which includ 5.1 digit surround sound.

but tv viewer in europ will have to wait to enjoi the ey-blast high-definit imag.

mani high-end european tv programm, such as the recent athen olymp, ar alreadi be produc in high-definit. but thei still reach your screen in the old 625 line. the prospect for get sharper imag soon do not seem veri encourag. accord to consult strategi analyt, onli 12% of home in europ will have tv capabl of show programm in high-definit by 2008. but the hdtv hype spill out of the us and japan ha spur european broadcast and consum electron compani to push for chang. big sport and entertain event ar set to help trigger the gener public's attent. the 2006 world cup in germani will be broadcast in high-definit.

in the uk, satellit broadcast bskyb is plan hdtv servic in 2006. there is alreadi a hdtv servic in europ call euro1080. other european broadcast, especi in franc and germani, also aim to launch similar servic.

in britain, digit satellit and cabl ar larg seen as the natur home for hdtv, at least while a decis is taken regard terrestri broadcast option. the commun watchdog ofcom could hand over some terrestri frequenc freed up when the uk switch off it analogu tv signal. for now, broadcast like the bbc ar work on their own hdtv plan, although with no launch date in sight. "the bbc will start broadcast in hdtv when the time is right, and it would not be just a showcas, but a whole set of program," sai andi quest, from the bbc's high-definit support group. "we have made the commit to produc all our output in high-definit by 2010, which would put us on the lead edg." on of the option under consider is to offer high-definit pictur on the web. the bbc ha alreadi dip it toe into thi, includ some hdtv content in recent trial of it interact media player - a video player for pc. it is plan to offer special releas of select flagship programm onlin in the near futur. accord to mr quest, thi could help put europ back into the run in the race to switch to hdtv. thi is back by recent research which suggest that the number of european with broadband ha explod over the past 12 month, with the web eat into tv view habit.
