pc photo printer challeng pro

home print pictur can be cheaper and higher qualiti than those from high street develop, test show.

a survei carri out by pc pro magazin look at which of 100 home photo printer offer a better deal than hand your snap to a photo lab. the test found that imag from top pc printer kept their colour longer than profession produc photograph. but us the wrong printer cartridg could mean snap fade in month, warn the magazin.

the group test of 100 home photo printer for pc discov how much it cost to creat imag us the devic compar to onlin develop as well as high street name such as jessop, boot and snappi snap. the comprehens test also reveal how quickli differ printer produc imag, the qualiti of the finish imag and how resist finish pictur were to smudg or water damag. it found that although some ink for printer now cost more than £2 per millilitr it can still be cheaper to produc print from photograph at home than it is to send them off to a high street store. "if you realli like your photo, then it's definit worth print at home instead of go to the high street, but onli if you choos the right printer," said nick ross, top tester at pc pro.

mr ross said that a new gener of printer produc imag with brighter colour and that were less like to fade than mani high street develop or even some profession wed photograph. some high street photo shop can be the cheapest when it came to develop print that were 6x4in, said mr ross, but the test reveal that imag 7x5in and 8x10in in size were cheaper to produc at home. accord to pc pro, produc a print 8x10in on an epson r800 printer us top qualiti paper cost £1.87. at jessop the same imag would cost £2.50 and at snappi snap £9.99. a 10x7in snap at boot would cost £4.99. "consid how inconveni it can be to go to the high street and how silver-halid print can fade in the sun, we're adam that it's now better, cheaper and more conveni to print at home," he said. ann simpson, market manag at snappi snap believ the conveni of high street print will continu to attract custom. "some peopl will want to do their own thing on their comput but the feedback to us is that custom often have to print two or three pictur at home in order to get a good on," she said. "mani peopl ar not skill at get the colour, contrast and crop right and thei don't want the hassl," she ad. the magazin test found that which ink consum us determin how long their print last befor thei start fade. it recommend avoid so-call third-parti ink not produc by printer maker becaus thei tend to produc print that fade the quickest.
