the game world in 2005

if you have finish doom 3, half life 2 and halo 2, don't worri. there's a host of game gem set for releas in 2005.

 world of warcraft 

the us recept to thi game from develop blizzard ha been huge enthusiast, with the titl top it competitor in the area of life-eat, high-fantasi, massiv multiplay role-player game. solid, divers, access and visual strike, it mai well open up the genr like never befor. if noth els, it will develop a vast and loyal commun. releas 25 februari on pc. ico 2 (work titl) ico remain a benchmark for ps2 game, a titl that took player into a uniqu atmospher and artist world of adventur. the (spiritu) sequel ha visual that echo those of the origin, but promis to expand the ico world, with hero wanda take on a seri of giant. the other known work titl is wanda and colossu. releas date to be confirm on ps2. the legend of zelda 

the charismat cel imageri ha been scrap in favour of a dark, detail aesthet (realism isn't quit the right word) that connect more with ocarina of time. link resum hi more teenag incarn too, though enemi, element and move look familiar from the impress trailer that ha been releas. horseback adventur across a vast land is promis. releas date to be confirm on gamecub. advanc war ds the uk nintendo ds launch line-up is still to be confirm at time of write, but titl that exploit it two-screen and touch capac, like wariowar touch! and sega's feel the magic, ar make a strong impress in other territori. person, i can't wait for the latest advanc war, the franchis that ha been the ic on the cake of nintendo handheld game dure the past few year. releas date to be confirm on ds. s.t.a.l.k.e.r. 

follow in the high-spec footstep of far cry and half-life 2, thi look like the kei upcom pc first-person shooter (with role-plai element). the fact that it is inspir in part by andrei tarkovski's enigmat 1979 masterpiec stalker and set in 2012 in the disast zone, a world of decai and mutat, make it all the more intrigu. releas 1 march on pc. metal gear solid: snake eater 

more hideo kojima seriou stealth, featur action in the soviet-control jungl in 1964. the game see snake have to surviv on hi wit in the jungl, includ eat wildlif. onc again, expect cinemat cut scene and polish product valu. releas march on ps2. dead or aliv ultim tecmo's team ninja ar back with retool and revamp version of dead or aliv 1 and 2. here's the big, big deal though - thei're playabl over xbox live. releas 11 march on xbox. knight of the old republ ii look set to build on the acclaim origin star war role plai game with new charact, new forc power and a new set of moral decis, despit a differ develop. releas 11 februari on xbox and pc.
