bond game fail to shake or stir

for game fan, the word goldeney evok excit memori not onli of the jame bond reviv flick of 1995, but also the classic shoot-em-up that accompani it and left n64 owner glu to their consol for mani an hour.

adopt that hallow titl somewhat backfir on thi new game, for it fail to deliv on the promis of it name and struggl to gener the origin's massiv sens of fun. thi howev is not a sequel, nor doe it relat to the goldeney film. you ar the eponym renegad spy, an agent who desert to the bond world's extens rank of crimin mastermind, after be deem too brutal for mi6. your new command-in-chief is the portli auric goldfing, last seen in 1964, but happili run around bent on world domin. with a determin to justifi it name which is even less convinc than that of tina turner's similarli-titl theme song, the game liter give the player a golden ey follow an injuri, which enabl a degre of x-rai vision.

rogu agent signal it intent by featur jame bond initi and proceed to kill him off within moment, squash by a plummet helicopt. the notion is of cours to add a novel dark edg to a 007 game, but the premis simpli doe not get the juic flow like it need to.

recent bond game like nightfir and everyth or noth were veri compet and did a fine job of captur the sens of flair, invent and glamour of the film franchis. thi titl lack that aura, and when the bond magic shine through, it feel like a lucki accid. the central problem is that the gameplai just is not good enough. quit asid from the bizarr inabl to jump, the even more bizarr glare graphic bug and dubiou enemi ai, the level simpli ar not put togeth with much style or imagin. admittedli the competit ha been tough, even in recent week, with the like of halo 2 and half life 2 triumph in virtual everi depart. what the game is good at is envelop you in noisi, dynam scene of violent chao. as is the trend of late, you ar made to feel like you ar in the midst of a realli messi and fraught encount. sadli that sens of action is outweigh by the difficulti of navig and battl within the chao, mean that frustrat is often the outcom. and irregular save point mean you have to backtrack each time you ar kill. a minut red dot pass for a crosshair, although the collis-detect is so suspect that the difficulti of aim weapon ar compens for. shoot enemi from a distanc can be tricki, and you will not alwai know you have pick them off, sinc dead enemi vanish liter befor thei have fulli hit the floor, and thei do so in some woefulli uninspir death anim. it is perhap indic of a lack of confid that the game maker's allow you sever differ weapon almost immedi and throw you quickli into rage firefight - no time is risk with a measur build-up.

by far the most satisfi element of the game is see old favourit like dr no, goldfing, hat-fiend oddjob and craze russian sex beast xenia onatopp resurrect after all these year, and with their face render in an impress recognis fashion.

there is a real thrill from do battl with these legendari villain, and it is a testament to the power of the bond univers that thei can cut such a dash. but the in-game niggl, combin with a stori and present that just do not feel suffici well thought-through, will make thi a disappoint for most. diehard fan of bond will probabl find enough here to make it a worthwhil purchas and try to ignor the fail. the game is weak, not complet unplay. then again, 007 fanat mai also take umbrag at the cavali blend of charact from differ era. given jame bond's healthi pedigre in past game, there is everi reason to hope that thi is just a blip, a commend idea that just ha not work, that will be rectifi when the charact inevit make hi return.

goldeney: rogu agent is out now
