humanoid robot learn how to run

car-maker honda's humanoid robot asimo ha just got faster and smarter.

the japanes firm is a leader in develop two-leg robot and the new, improv asimo (advanc step in innov mobil) can now run, find hi wai around obstacl as well as interact with peopl. eventu asimo could find gain employ in home and offic. "the aim is to develop a robot that can help peopl in their daili live," said a honda spokesman.

to get the robot run for the first time wa not an easi process as it involv asimo make an accur leap and absorb the impact of land without slip or spin. the "run" he is now capabl of is perhap not quit up to olymp star kelli holm' standard. at 3km/h, it is closer to a leisur jog. it maker claim that it is almost four time as fast as soni's qrio, which becam the first robot to run last year. the criteria for run robot is defin by engin as have both feet off the ground between stride. asimo ha improv in other wai too, increas hi walk speed, from 1.6km/h to 2.5km, grow 10cm to 130cm and put on 2kg in weight. while he mai not quit be readi for yoga, he doe have more freedom of movement, be abl to twist hi hip and bend hi wrist, thumb and neck.

asimo ha alreadi made hi mark on the intern robot scene and in novemb wa induct into the robot hall of fame. he ha wow audienc around the world with hi abil to walk upstair, recognis face and come when beckon. in august 2003 he even attend a state dinner in the czech republ, travel with the japanes prime minist as a goodwil envoi. he is on of a hand of robot us by tech firm to trumpet their technolog advanc. technolog develop for asimo could be us in the automobil industri as electron increasingli take over from mechan in car design. for the moment asimo's biggest role is an entertain and the audienc gather to see hi first public run greet hi slightli comic gait with amus, accord to report. robot can fulfil seriou function in societi and the unit nation econom commiss for europ predict that the worldwid market for industri robot will swell from 81,000 unit in 2003 to 106,000 in 2007.
