video phone help for deaf peopl

deaf peopl who prefer to commun us british sign languag (bsl) could soon be have their phone convers relai us webcam or videophon and an interpret.

the video relai servic is be pilot by the royal nation institut for deaf peopl (rnid), but the organis sai unless the servic is provid at the same rate as voic call it will be beyond most peopl's pocket. the rnid is urg telecom regul, ofcom, to reduc the cost of the servic from the current £7.00 per minut and make it the same as ordinari phone call. the servic work by put a deaf person in visual contact with a bsl interpret via a webcam or video phone, and the interpret then relai the deaf person's convers us a telephon and translat the other person's respons into sign languag.

for mani deaf peopl, especi those born deaf, bsl is a first and prefer mean of commun.

until now, the onli altern ha been to us textphon which mean have to type a messag and have it relai via an oper. "in the past, i've us textphon but thei have problem," said robert currington who is take part in the pilot. "i commun in bsl; my written english is not veri good and it take me longer to think in english and type my messag." "i sometim find it difficult to understand the repli." the rnid sai the uk is lag behind other countri which ar alreadi make relai servic avail at the cost of an ordinari phone call. "there ar no technic or econom reason for not provid equival access to servic for deaf peopl," said rnid technolog director, guido gybel. "in the us and australia, sign languag relai servic have alreadi been made univers avail at the same cost as a voic call. "by fail to provid and fund the video relai servic for sign languag user, the telecommun sector is effect discrimin against an alreadi disenfranchis group."

ofcom sai it ha plan to review the servic that telecom compani ar oblig to provid earli next year. and new technolog, includ the video relai servic, will be discuss with interest parti in the near futur. but a spokesman said it power were limit by legisl. "ani propos to extend exist arrang to cover new servic would be for govern to consid," he said. mr currington, like mani of the uk's 70,000 bsl user, will be hope that a wai can be found to make a cost-effect servic avail. "the relai servic make phone convers a pleasur," he said. "i can show my emot more easili in bsl in the same wai hear peopl express emot through voic call."
