pole plai with gameboi 'blip-pop'

a group of artist in poland ha taken the cacophoni of blip, boop and beep creat as player bash button on nintendo's handheld gameboi consol to a new level.

the gameboyzz orchestra project ha taken the game sound to put togeth music tune thei have dub "blip-pop." think of it as donkei kong meet norman cook, or mayb tetri take on kraftwerk. ani wai you slice it, the sound is distinct. all the sound ar made by six nintendo gameboi, with a mixtur of older model and newer advanc sp handheld. the gameboyzz orchestra project tweak the softwar a bit, and then connect the unit through a mix board.

jarek kujda, on of the project's found member ha been into electron music and video game, for a while now.

"i wa plai some experiment music and three, four year ago when i first us a gameboi in my band as a drum machin," said kujda. he realis that the consol could be us as a rudimentari synthes. he wonder, if on gameboi can make music, what would happen if he put six of them togeth? kujda found five other peopl who were interest and the gameboyzz orchestra project wa born. "gameboyzz orchestra project is more of an improvis project," said kudja. "we prepar some pattern befor a concert, and then improvis dure the concert." the group plai mayb four or five show a year. malgorzata kujda, jarek's younger sister and a fellow band member, describ a gameboyzz orchestra project concert as a lot of nois. "for exampl, i make music with more hard beat and nois," she said. "but each of us make anoth music, a differ sound. and then in the concert we just improvis, and that i think is more fun for us."

the gameboyzz orchestra project admit thei get mix reaction from audienc. some love the group's music, and other ar not quit sure what to make of it.

in the world of electron music, these purveyor of blip-pop ar not uniqu. but jarek kujda sai thei try to be uniqu. "we have lot of peopl make music on old school stuff, electron old school stuff like commodor, atari, spectrum," he said. "we want to plai onli experiment music, not cover song. we're someth like an electron jam session." the gameboyzz orchestra project's track ar avail onlin and the group hope to make a cd next year. and thei have sponsorship, courtesi of the polish distributor of nintendo product. the member of the gameboyzz orchestra project do not expect seriou competit anytim soon. a gameboi advanc cost about us $200 in poland these dai, which is still wai beyond the reach of most polish gamer, or musician.

clark boyd is technolog correspond for the world, a bbc world servic and wgbh-boston co-product
