speech take on search engin

a scottish firm is look to attract web surfer with a search engin that read out result.

call speegl, it ha the look and feel of a normal search engin, with the ad featur of be abl to read out the result. scottish speech technolog firm cec system launch the site in novemb. but expert have question whether talk search engin ar of ani real benefit to peopl with visual impair.

the edinburgh-base firm cec ha marri speech technolog with ever-popular internet search. the abil to search is becom increasingli crucial to surfer baffl by the huge amount of inform avail on the web.

accord to search engin ask jeev, around 80% of surfer visit search engin as their first port of call on the net. peopl visit speegl can select on of three voic to read the result of a queri or summaris new stori from sourc such as the bbc and reuter. "it is still a bit robot and can make a few mistak but we ar never go to have complet natur sound voic and it is not bad," said speegl founder gordon renton. "the system is ideal for peopl with blur vision or for those that just want to search for someth in the background while thei do someth els. "we ar not sai that it will be suitabl for total blind peopl, although the royal nation institut of the blind (rnib) is look at the technolog," he ad. but juli howel, digit polici manag at the rnib, express doubt over whether speegl and similar site ad anyth to blind peopl's experi of the web. "there ar a whole lot of option like thi spring up on the web and on ha to think carefulli about what the market is go to be," she said. "blind peopl have specialis screen reader avail to them which will do the job these technolog do in a more sophist wai," she ad.

the site us a technolog dub panavox, which take web text and convert it into synthesis speech. in the past speech technolog ha onli been compat with broadband becaus of the huge file it download but cec sai it compress technolog mean it will also work on slower dial-up connect. visitor to speegl mai notic that the look and feel of the site bear more than a pass resembl to the better known, if silent, search engin googl. googl ha no connect with speegl and the us of bright colour is simpli to make the site more visibl for those with visual impair, said mr renton. "it is not a rip-off. we ar do someth that googl doe not do and is not plan to do and there is truth in the sai that imit is the sincerest form of flatteri," he said. speegl is prove popular with those learn english in countri such as japan and china. "the site is bombard by peopl just listen to the word. the repetit could be us although thei mai all end up talk like robot," said mr renton.
