broadband soar in 2004

if broadband were a jumbo jet, then 2003 would have seen it taxi down the runwai, fire up it engin and prepar for take-off. but thi year ha seen it soar.

in the spring it liter took to the ski as lufthansa and british airwai triall it on flight. thi perhap said more about how indispens peopl were begin to perceiv the technolog, rather than how us sky-high broadband would actual be. it wa fly high and by the autumn, five million briton had sign up for high-speed net access at home.

such enthusiasm is unlik to dampen ani time soon and expert predict that by the end of next year the number will have risen to more than eight million, or more than 30% of home. the two kei factor in whet peopl's appetit were fall price and a huge market push. when oper such as bt and telewest offer standard 512k broadband for less than £20 at the begin of the year, it wa as if an invis barrier had been breach - broadband had truli gone mass market. a feed frenzi follow as firm vi for eyebal in a price war reminisc of that follow the mass market take-up of dial-up. broadband for less than £10 wa even tout by some firm, although such a low price rais eyebrow among more establish compani question how thei ar abl to sustain such busi model.

for those who becam broadband in 2004 there wa no turn back and the dai of wait for the modem to kick in began to seem as outdat an idea as a jungl without celebr. the rest of the world wa also fall in love with the benefit of fast internet access, to the tune of 100 million connect worldwid by april, prompt research firm point topic to declar it on of the fastest grow technolog ever. by septemb, the number of broadband connect in the uk final overtook dial-up and in decemb bt announc that it wa make a new broadband connect everi 10 second.

broadband wa be mention on the 10 o'clock new and in the tabloid; the sun even carri a cartoon joke about it. but two of the most signific piec of new for broadband were item that did not make the headlin. in mai, bt quietli announc that it wa shave 70% off the cost of allow other oper access to it telephon exchang, so-call local loop unbundl. the vital local loop is the crucial link between telephon exchang and home. at the moment bt ha a stranglehold on more than 80% of these line make it the kei voic in decid what adsl product get into home. with cheaper local loop unbundl, rival to bt can offer faster servic that will leav the broadband of todai look posit tortois-like. it will mean the uk will final catch up with countri such as franc and the netherland, where home ar routin enjoi speed of up to 15mb (megabit per second). and the major price fall mean that, rather than just talk about it, compani ar actual start to get their own equip into bt's exchang. it mai not seem that excit but it is a remark transit given that just a few year ago the argument over local loop unbundl bore more than a pass resembl to the northern ireland peac talk - fraught, bitter and with no end in sight.

anoth big piec of new for broadband user in 2004 wa the extens of bt's reach, mean more than 95% of the popul could get broadband, regardless of how far awai from the exchang thei live.

there wa a slight caveat for those want to upgrad to 1mbp broadband, thei still have to live within six kilometr of a broadband-enabl exchang. for thousand frustrat by their inabl to get the technolog, the new meant thei could final join in. broadband is not just about fast access over the telephon and cabl oper ntl and telewest also had a bumper year. the biggest new for them wa increas speed, introduc 2mb and 3mb servic for user and offer a free upgrad to those on 512k. the cabl oper ar limit in their reach and it is perhap testament to how big a deal local loop unbundl could becom that even thei ar consid extend their rang via thi rout. broadband can seem confus for consum, with the huge amount of oper offer so mani differ product, some with cap bandwidth and differ length contract and set-up fee. it is unlik to get ani less easi to understand in 2005 but remain a plane worth catch. as it get faster and offer extra such as cheap telephon call onlin, the onli real thing to rememb for the come year is to enjoi the ride.
