the year search becam person

the odd ar that when you fire up your browser, you go straight to your favourit search engin, rather than type in a web address.

some mai see thi as the height of lazi, but in an era of inform overload, search ha becom a vital tool in navig the net. it is symptomat of how the wai we us the internet is chang. and as googl ha shown, there is monei in offer a servic that peopl cannot live without. there is no shortag of compani vy for the loyalti of web searcher, offer a wealth of differ servic and tool to help you find what you want. over the past 12 month, giant of the technolog world such as microsoft and yahoo have sought to grab a slice of the search action. "user experi ha contribut to peopl search more," said yonca brunini of yahoo. as peopl becom more familiar with the internet, thei tend to spend more time onlin and ask more queri, she said. "the other second thing is broadband," ms brunini told the bbc new websit. "thi will do to internet what colour ha done to tv."

but search is hardli a new phenomenon. it ha been around sinc the earli dai of the net.

veteran surfer will rememb old-timer like hotbot and altavista. "search wa alwai import," said ur holzl, googl vice-presid of oper. "we trumpet that in 1999. it is even truer now as there ar more user and more inform." "peopl didn't realis that search wa the futur. the financi have someth to do with it." googl ha shown web commerc can work through it target small advert, which appear at the top and down the right-hand side of a page and ar relat to the origin search. these small ad help googl reach revenu of $805.9m for the three month to septemb. other have woken up to the fact that you can make monei out of web queri. "onc you see there is a market, microsoft is bound to step to it. if microsoft see search as import, then nobodi queri it," said mr holzl.

microsoft is just on of the net giant muscl in on search. yahoo, ask jeev, amazon and a hand of smaller outfit ar all seek to captur eyebal.

web user face a plethora of choic as each compani tri to outflank googl by roll out new search product such as desktop search. it reflect how the battlefield ha shift from the net to your pc. search is not just about find your wai around the web. it is now about unlock inform hidden in the gigabyt of document, imag and music on hard drive. for all these advanc, search is still a clumsi tool, often fail to come up with exactli what you had in mind. in order to do a better job, search engin ar try to get to know you better, do a better job of rememb, catalogu and manag all the inform you come across. "personalis is go to be a big area for the futur," said yahoo's yonca brunini. "whoever crack that and give you the inform you want is go to be the winner. we have to understand you to give you better result that ar tailor to you." thi is perhap the holi grail of search, understand what it is you ar look for and provid it quickli. the problem is that no on yet know how to get there.
