ibm free 500 softwar patent

comput giant ibm sai 500 of it softwar patent will be releas into the open develop commun.

the move mean develop will be abl to us the technolog without pai for a licenc from the compani. ibm describ the step as a "new era" in how it dealt with intellectu properti and promis further patent would be made freeli avail. the patent includ softwar for a rang of practic, includ text recognit and databas manag. tradit technolog busi polici is to amass patent and despit ibm's announc the compani continu to follow thi rout.

ibm wa grant 3,248 patent in 2004, more than ani other firm in the us, the new york time report. for each of the past 12 year ibm ha been grant more us patent than ani other compani. ibm ha receiv 25,772 us patent in that period and reportedli ha more than 40,000 current patent. in a statement, dr john e. kelli, ibm senior vice presid, technolog and intellectu properti, said: "true innov leadership is about more than just the number of patent grant. it's about innov to benefit custom, partner and societi.

"our pledg todai is the begin of a new era in how ibm will manag intellectu properti." in the past, ibm ha support the non-commerci oper system linux although critic have said thi wa done onli as an attempt to undermin microsoft.

the compani said it want to encourag other firm to releas patent into what it call a "patent common". adam jollan, ibm's world-wide linux strategi manag, said the move wa a genuin attempt to encourag innov. "we believ that releas these patent will result in innov move more quickli. "thi is about encourag collabor and follow a model much like academia." mr jollan liken the plan for a patent common to the wai the internet wa develop and said everyon could take advantag of the result of collabor. "the internet's impact ha been on everyon. the benefit ar there for everyon to take advantag of." stuart cohen, chief execut of us firm open sourc develop lab, said the move could mean a chang in the wai compani deal with patent.

"i think other compani will follow suit," he said. but not everyon wa as support. florian mueller, campaign manag of a group lobbi toprev softwar patent becom legal in the european union,dismiss ibm's move as insubstanti. "it's just diversionari tactic," wrote mr mueller, who leadsnosoftwarepat.com, in a messag on the group's websit. "let's put thi into perspect: we're talk aboutroughli on percent of ibm's worldwid patent portfolio. thei filethat number of patent in about a month's time," he ad. ibm will continu to hold the 500 patent but it ha pledg to seek no royalti from the patent. the compani said it would not place ani restrict on compani, group or individu who us them in open-sourc project. open sourc softwar is develop by programm who offer the sourc code - the origin of the program - for free and allow other to adapt or improv the softwar. end user have the right to modifi and redistribut the softwar, as well as the right to packag and sell the softwar. other area cover by the patent releas by ibm includ storag manag, simultan multiprocess, imag process, network and e-commerc.
