yahoo move into desktop search

internet giant yahoo ha launch softwar to allow peopl to search e-mail and other file on their pc.

the firm is follow in the footstep of microsoft, googl and ask jeev, which have offer similar servic. search ha becom a lucr and hotli-contest area of expans for net firm, look to extend loyalti beyond the web. with hard drive provid bigger storag, user could need more help to locat import file, such as photo.

the desktop search technolog ha been licens from a us-base firm x1 technolog. it is design to work alongsid microsoft's outlook and outlook express e-mail program. search e-mail effect is becom increasingli import, especi as the amount of spam increas. accord to research from messag analyst the radicati group, up to 45% of busi' critic inform is store in e-mail and attach. yahoo's softwar can also work separ on the desktop, search for music, photo and other file. user can search under a varieti of criteria, includ file name, size, date and time. it doesn't yet incorpor web search, although yahoo ha promis that futur version will allow user to search both web-base and desktop data. "we ar all get more and more file on our desktop but the real commerci opportun li with link thi through to web content," said julian smith, an analyst with research firm jupit. "it is all about extend the idea of search and get a closer relationship with consum by organis not just how thei search on the internet but the file on your comput as well," he said. search engin ar often the first port of call for user when thei go onto the web. the new forai into desktop search ha rung alarm bell for human right group, concern about the implic to privaci. and not everyon is impress with the function of such servic. alexand linden, vice presid of emerg technolog at analyst firm gartner,download the googl product but ha sinc remov it. "it wa just not veri interest," he said. he believ the rush to enter the desktop busi is just a wai of keep up with rival. "desktop search is just on of mani featur peopl would like but i'm suspici of it us," he said. more us would be tool that can combin internet, intranet and desktop search alongsid improv to kei word search, he said.
