us state act to stop 'spammer'

us state texa ha file a lawsuit against two men believ to be among the world's top five spammer.

it is seek million of dollar in damag in a civil lawsuit file earlier thi week. the texa attornei gener said it start the legal action as messag sent by the alleg spammer broke three law govern e-mail market. the compani name in the lawsuit deni ani wrongdo and said it compli with all relev law.

the texa lawsuit wa file against ryan samuel pitylak, a univers oftexa student, and mark stephen trotter of california. both ar thought to be the top execut in three compani - payperact llc., leadplex llc. and leadplex inc - that ar suspect of send out mani million of unwant e-mail messag. "illeg spam must be stop," said greg abbott, texa attornei gener announc the legal action. "spam is on of the most aggrav and pervas problem face consum todai." the attornei gener alleg that messag sent by mr pitylak and mr trotter's compani broke the 2003 control the assault of non-solicit pornographi and market act (can-spam) as well as the texa electron mail and solicit act and texa decept trade practic act. all three act confer cash penalti for each violat of their term. if the men ar found guilti and all penalti ar appli, the two men could face a damag bill run into million. mr abbott said the messag sent by the pair broke law by us mislead subject line, not identifi themselv as advert and offer servic for which thei had no licenc to do so in texa. lawyer for the alleg spammer said the lawsuit wa groundless and the two men would defend themselv strongli against the accus. "leadplex and payperact ar legitim internet market compani that ar in complet complianc with the feder can-spam act," said lin hugh, speak on behalf of mr pitylak and mr trotter. in a similar move the us feder trade commiss (ftc) ha won a court order that stop an intern group of spammer send sexual explicit e-mail. the ftc took the action becaus the messag be sent violat sever part of the can-spam act. in particular, the pornograph messag did not identifi themselv as be sexual explicit, had decept subject head, did not have work opt-out mechan, fail to mention thei were advert and did not give the sender's real world address. the court order stop the spammer send e-mail and freez asset prior to a hear on a perman injunct.
