world tour for top video gamer

two uk gamer ar about to embark on a world tour as part of the most lucr-ever global game tournament.

aaron foster and david treaci have won the right to take part in a tournament offer $1m in total prize monei. the cash will be hand out over 10 separ competit in a contin-hop contest organis by the cyberathlet profession leagu. as part of their prize the pair will have their travel cost paid to ensur thei can get to the differ bout.

the cpl world tour kick off in mid-februari and the first leg will be in istanbul. all ten bout of the tournament will be plai throughout 2005, each on in a differ countri. at each stop $50,000 in prize monei will be up for grab. the tournament champion for each leg of the cpl world tour will walk awai with a $15,000 prize. the winner of the grand final will get a prize purs of $150,000 from a total pot of $500,000.

winner of each stage of the tour automat get a place at the next stop. the world tour stop ar open to ani keen gamer that regist. onlin registr for the first stop open thi weekend. some pro-player ar win a spot at the tour destin through qualifi event organis by cpl partner. winner at these qualifi get seed higher in the elimin part of each tournament. mr foster and mr treaci get the chanc to attend the world tour as member of the uk's four-king game clan. toward the end of 2004 four-king stage a seri of onlin painkil competit to reveal the uk's top player of the pc game. the best eight player met face-to-face in a special elimin event in late decemb where mr foster and mr tracei prove their prowess at painkil. as part of their prize the pair also get a contract with four-king intel which is on of the uk's few pro-game team. "there ar a lot of peopl who take game veri serious and support their local or nation team with the same passion as ani other sport," said simon byssh who film the event for four-king and intel. more than 80,000 peopl have download the movi of the tournament highlight. "profession game is here to stai and will onli grow in popular," he said.
