soup-up wi-fi is on the horizon

super high-speed wireless data network could soon be in us in the uk.

the govern's wireless watchdog is seek help on the best wai to regul the technolog behind such network call ultra wideband (uwb). ofcom want to ensur that the arriv of uwb-us devic doe not caus problem for those that alreadi us the same part of the radio spectrum. uwb make it possibl to stream huge amount of data through the air over short distanc. on of the more like us of uwb is to make it possibl to send dvd qualiti video imag wirelessli to tv screen or to let peopl beam music to media player around their home. the technolog ha the potenti to transmit hundr of megabit of data per second. uwb could also be us to creat so-call person area network that let a person's gadget quickli and easili swap data amongst themselv. the technolog work over a rang up to 10 metr and us billion of short radio puls everi second to carri data. at the recent consum electron show in la vega product with uwb chip built-in got their first public air.

current, us of uwb is onli allow in the uk under a strict licenc scheme. "we're seek opinion from industri to find out whether or not we should allow uwb on a licenc-exempt basi," said a spokesman for ofcom.

compani have until 24 march to respond. in april the ec is due to start it own consult on europ-wide adopt of uwb. the cross-europ bodi for radio regul, known as the european confer of postal and telecommun administr (cept), is carri out research for thi harmonis programm. earli sight of the cept work ha caus controversi as some think it over-emphasis uwb's potenti to interfer with exist user. by contrast a preliminari ofcom report found that it would be quit straight-forward to deploi uwb without caus problem for those that alreadi us it. the ofcom spokesman said it wa consid impos a "mask" or set of technic restrict on uwb-us devic. "we would want these devic to have veri strict control on power level so thei can not transmit a long wai or over a wide area," he said. despit the current restrict the technolog is alreadi be us. cambridg-base ubisens ha about 40 custom around the world us the short-rang radio technolog, said david theriault, standard and regulatori liaison for ubisens. he said that uwb wa drive novel wai to interact with comput. "it's like have a 3d mous all the time," he said. he said that european decis on what to do with uwb alli with ieee decis on the exact specif for it would help drive adopt. prior to it adopt as a wai for gadget and comput to commun, uwb wa us as a sens technolog. it is us to spot such thing as crack under the surfac of runwai or to help firemen detect peopl through wall.
