ea to take on film and tv giant

video game giant electron art (ea) sai it want to becom the biggest entertain firm in the world.

the us firm sai it want to compet with compani such as disnei and will onli achiev thi by make game appeal to mainstream audienc. ea publish blockbust titl such as fifa and john madden, as well as video game version of movi such as harri potter and the jame bond film. it revenu were $3bn (£1.65bn) in 2004, which ea hope to doubl by 2009. ea is the biggest game publish in the world and in 2004 had 27 titl which sold in excess of on million copi each. nine of the 20 biggest-sell game in the uk last year were publish by ea.

gerhard florin, ea's manag director for european publish, said: "doubl our industri in five year is not rocket scienc." he said it would take mani year befor ea could challeng disnei - which in 2004 report revenu of $30bn (£16bn) - but it remain a goal for the compani. "we will be abl to bring more peopl into game becaus game will be more emot." mr florin predict that the next round of game consol would give develop enough power to creat real emot.

"it's the subtleti, the ey, the mouth - 5,000 polygon doesn't realli sell the emot.

"with ps3 and xbox 2, we can go on the main charact with 30,000 to 50,000 polygon," he said. "with that increas firepow, the find nemo video game look just like the movi, but it will be interact." mr florin said that more than 50% of all ea's game were sold to adult and plai by adult, but the percept remain that the video game industri wa for children. "our goal is to bring game to the mass which bring out emot." ea said the video game industri wa now bigger than the music industri. "nobodi queue for music anymor."

"you can't ignor an industri when peopl queue to bui a game at midnight becaus thei ar so desper to plai it," he said, refer to demand for titl for such as grand theft auto: san andrea and halo 2.

jan bolz, ea's vice presid of sale and market in europ, said the firm wa work to give video game a more central role in popular cultur. he said the compani wa in advanc stage of discuss over a realiti tv show in which viewer could control the action of the charact as in it popular game the sim. "on idea could be that you're control a famili, tell them when to go to the kitchen and when to go to the bedroom, and with thi mechan you have gamer all over the world 'plai the show'," said mr bolz.

he also said ea wa plan an intern award show "similar to the oscar and the grammi" which would combin video game, music and movi. mr bolz said video game firm had to work more close with celebr. "peopl will want to plai video game if their hero like robbi william or christina aguilera ar in them." mr florin said the challeng wa to keep peopl plai in their 30s, 40s and 50s. "there's an indic that a 30 year old come home from work and still want to plai game. "if that's true, that's a big challeng for tv broadcast - becaus watch tv is the biggest pastim at present."
