tech help disabl speed demon

an organis ha been launch to encourag disabl peopl to get involv in all aspect of motorsport, which is now increasingli possibl thank to technolog innov.

the motorsport endeavour club left the start grid yesterdai at the autosport intern 2005 show at birmingham's nec, with sever technolog to adapt vehicl on displai.

motorcycl racer, roi tanslei, from derbi develop hi electron sequenti gear changer follow an accid which result in part of hi left leg be amput. "i need to find a wai of chang gear and gener you do that with your left leg," mr tanslei told the bbc new websit. "in simpl term, i need to invent a left foot - initi it wa quit a heath robinson devic." mr tanslei had to argu hi case to be allow to continu compet with motorcycl race's govern bodi, the autocycl union. "at that time thei wouldn't let ani ampute race at all, but eventu thei told me i could have a licenc as long as i race sidecar." mr tanslei's invent, the pro-shift, is design to work with hewland gearbox which ar wide us in motorcycl race. in addit to help disabl rider to compet, mr tanslei reckon that the pro-shift save at least 20 second per lap when he compet in the isl of man tt. as a result, there ha been consider interest in the product from other rider keen to improv their perform. "i'm not prejud, i'll sell to abl-bodi peopl if i have to!" he joke.

anoth exhibit on the motorsport endeavour stand is a subaru impreza ralli car, adapt to accommod a varieti of disabl. the vehicl belong to parar, the world's onli ralli school for disabl driver which is base in lincolnshir.

"we us the latest technolog suppli by an italian compani," said ralli driver dave hawkin who run the compani. "the car have electron throttl, electron brake, electron clutch - we've yet to turn anybodi awai." mr hawkin - a parapleg himself - sai hi custom have includ right or left arm ampute, quadripleg, peopl who have had stroke and a woman who had had all four limb amput. parar us a vauxhal astra gsi with an automat gearbox and manual subaru impreza. the car on displai is fit with a 'duck clutch' - a switch on the gear stick us instead of the clutch pedal. it also ha a second ring behind the steer wheel to oper the throttl and a hand oper brake bar.

when joi rainei start compet in motorsport in 1974 she wa continu the famili tradit - her father, murrai, is a former australian formula 3 champion.

and it wa rainei senior who modifi a sport racer to accommod hi daughter's small statur so that she could take part in hill climb. she us an ordinari road car by put extens on the pedal, a cushion behind her back and rais the seat. "but in a competit car you have to have everyth right or you'll lose the balanc of the car," she said. "i bring everyth back to me - steer wheel, steer column, gear lever and pedal." when she recent took part in the london to sydnei marathon she share the drive with her partner, trevor, who now doe the engin work. he design a system for their morri minor so that the adapt could be total remov in under a minut. the motorsport endeavour club is hope that put such technolog on displai will result in more disabl peopl becom involv in all area of the sport and at everi level.
