web photo storag market hot up

an increas number of firm ar offer web storag for peopl with digit photo collect.

digit camera were the hot gadget of christma 2004 and worldwid sale of the camera total $24bn last year. mani peopl's hard drive ar bulg with photo and servic which allow them to store and share their pictur onlin ar becom popular. search firm such as googl ar also offer more complex tool for manag person photo librari. photo giant such as kodak offer websit storag which manag photo collect, let user edit pictur onlin and provid print-order servic. some servic, such as kodak's ofoto and snapfish, offer unlimit storag space but thei do requir user to bui some print onlin. other site, such as pixagogo, charg a monthli fee. marcu hawkin, editor of digit camera magazin, said: "as file size of pictur increas, storag becom a problem. "peopl ar us their hard drive, back up on cd and dvd and now thei ar us onlin storag solut.

"thei ar a place to store pictur, to share their pictur with famili and friend and thei can print out their photo."

while mani of the servic ar aim at the amateur and casual digit photograph, other websit ar gear up for enthusiast who want to share tip and inform. photosig is an onlin commun of photograph who can critiqu each other's work. on tuesdai, googl releas free softwar for organis and find digit photo store on a comput's hard drive. the tool, call picasa, automat detect photo as thei ar ad to a pc - whether sent via e-mail or transfer from a digit camera.

the softwar includ tool for restor colour and remov red ey, as well as sharpen imag. photo can then be upload to site such as ofoto. mani peopl us the site to edit and improv their favourit photograph befor order print. mr hawkin ad: "the growth area is that you can order your print onlin. friend and famili can also access pictur you want them to see and thei can print them out too. "rather than just a place to dump your pictur, it's about share them."

the vast major of pictur remain on a pc's hard drive, which is why search tool, such as those offer by googl, becom increasingli import. but some historian and archivist ar concern that the need for perfect pictur will mean that those poor qualiti print which offer a tantilis glimps of the past mai disappear forev. "it's on thing take pictur, it's anoth find them," said mr hawkin. "but thi is the same problem that ha alwai exist - how mani of us have photo in wallet tuck awai somewher?"
