cabl offer video-on-demand

cabl firm ntl and telewest have both launch video-on-demand servic as the battl between satellit and cabl tv heat up.

movi from soni pictur, walt disnei, touchston, miramax, columbia and buena vista will be among those on offer. the servic is similar to sky plu, as user can paus, fast forward and rewind content, but thei cannot store programm on their set top box - yet. it could sound the death knell for some tv channel, telewest predict. "it allow us to demonstr a clear competit advantag over sky for the first time in mani year," said telewest chief execut eric tveter.

"video-on-demand will offer a deeper rang of content than current exist on tv. there will be less compromis around the tv schedul and some of the less popular channel mai go by the waysid," said philip snalun, director of product at telewest. telewest custom in bristol and ntl viewer in glasgow will be the first to test the new servic, which see a raft of movi on offer for 24 hour rental. dure the year, the servic will be extend to all cabl region. film will rang in price from £1 or £2 for archiv movi to £3.50 for current releas. new releas initi on offer will includ 50 first date, kill bill: volum 2, gothika and the station agent. in addit, ntl is offer children's programm, adult content, music video and concert. telewest will launch similar servic later in the year. ntl is also offer viewer the chanc to catch up with programm thei have miss. it pick of the week servic will offer a select of bbc programm from the previou seven dai such as eastend, casualti, top gear and antiqu roadshow. the bbc is triall a similar servic, offer broadband user the chanc to watch programm alreadi broadcast on their pc. for telewest it is the begin of a £20m invest in tv-on-demand which will also see the launch of a person video record (pvr). pvr ha been a big success for sky becaus it give custom control over programm. satellit custom without pvr cannot paus, rewind or fast forward their programm.

with both servic on offer from telewest, mr tveter is confid the cabl firm can dent not just the view figur for terrestri tv but also gain a huge competit advantag over sky.

"we offer the best of both world and most household have an interest in have both video-on-demand and pvr," he said. video rental store mai also have to watch their back. "video-on-demand is better than have a video-store in your live room and is more conveni," he said. ntl said it had not rule out the possibl of offer a pvr but for the moment is concentr on video-on-demand. "pvr is a record mechan wherea what we ar offer is truli on demand," said a spokesman for the compani. video-on-demand ha the ad advantag of not requir a separ set-top box or extra remot control, he ad. adam thoma, an analyst at research firm informa media believ the time is ripe for video-on-demand to flourish. "while sky will remain the domin forc in uk pai tv for some time to come, ntl and telewest seem well place to successfulli ride thi second wave of vod enthusiasm and, if market correctli, thi could help them eat into sky's lead," he said.
