cyber crime boom in 2004

the last 12 month have seen a dramat growth in almost everi secur threat that plagu window pc.

the count of known virus broke the 100,000 barrier and the number of new virus grew by more than 50%. similarli phish attempt, in which conmen try to trick peopl into hand over confidenti data, ar record growth rate of more than 30% and attack ar becom increasingli sophist. also on the increas ar the number of network of remot control comput, call bot net, us by malici hacker and conmen to carri out mani differ cyber crime.

on of the biggest chang of 2004 wa the wane influenc of the boi hacker keen to make a name by write a fast-spread viru, said kevin hogan, senior manag in symantec's secur respons group. although teenag viru writer will still plai around with malici code, said mr hogan, 2004 saw a signific rise in crimin us of malici program. the financi incent were drive crimin us of technolog, he said. hi comment wa echo by graham clulei, senior technolog consult from anti-viru firm sopho. mr clulei said: "when the commerci world get involv, thing realli get nasti. viru writer and hacker will be look to make a tidi sum."

in particular, phish attack, which typic us fake version of bank websit to grab login detail of custom, boom dure 2004. web portal lyco europ report a 500% increas in the number of phish e-mail messag it wa catch. the anti-phish work group report that the number of phish attack against new target wa grow at a rate of 30% or more per month. those who fall victim to these attack can find that their bank account ha been clean out or that their good name ha been ruin by someon steal their ident. thi chang in the rank of viru writer could mean the end of the mass-mail viru which attempt to spread by trick peopl into open infect attach on e-mail messag. "thei ar not an effici wai of spread virus," said mr hogan. "thei ar veri noisi and thei ar not technic challeng." the open month of 2004 did see the appear of the netski, bagl and mydoom mass mailer, but sinc then more surreptiti virus, or worm, have domin.

mr hogan said worm writer were more interest in recruit pc to take part in "bot net" that can be us to send out spam or to mount attack on websit.

in septemb symantec releas statist which show that the number of activ "bot comput" rose from 2,000 to 30,000 per dai. thank to these "bot net", spam continu to be a problem in 2004. anti-spam firm report that, in mani case, legitim e-mail ha shrunk to less than 30% of messag. part of the reason that these "bot net" have becom so preval, he said, wa due to a big chang in the wai that mani virus were creat. in the past mani virus, such as netski, have been the work of an individu or group. by contrast, said mr hogan, the code for virus such as gaobot, spybot and randex were commonli held and mani group work on them to produc new variant at the same time. the result is that now there ar more than 3,000 variat of the spybot worm. "that's unpreced," said mr hogan. "what make it difficult is that thei ar all co-exist with each other and do not exist in an easi to understand chronolog."

the emerg of the first proper viru for mobil phone wa also seen in 2004.

in the past, threat to smart phone have been larg theoret becaus the virus creat to crippl phone exist onli in the laboratori rather than the wild. in june, the cabir viru wa discov that can hop from phone to phone us bluetooth short-rang radio technolog. also releas thi year wa the mosquito game for symbian phone which surreptiti send messag to premium rate number, and in novemb the skull trojan came to light which can crippl phone. on the posit side, finnish secur firm f-secur said that 2004 wa the best-ever year for the captur, arrest and sentenc of viru writer and crimin-mind hacker. in total, eight viru writer were arrest and some member of the so-call 29a viru write group were sentenc. on high-profil arrest wa that of german teenag sven jaschen who confess to be behind the netski and sasser viru famili. also shut down were the carderplanet and shadowcrew websit that were us to trade stolen credit card number.
