dublin hi-tech lab to shut down

dublin's hi-tech research laboratori, media lab europ, is to shut down.

the research centr, which wa start by the irish govern and the massachusett institut of technolog, wa a hotb for technolog concept. sinc it open in 2000, the centr ha develop idea, such as implant for teeth, and also aim to be a digit hub for start-up in the area. the centr wa suppos to be self-fund, but ha fail to attract the privat cash inject it need. in a statement, media lab europ said the decis to close wa taken becaus neither the irish govern nor the prestigi us-base massachusett institut of technolog (mit) wa will to fund it. prime minist berti ahern had want to the centr to becom a big draw for smaller hi-tech compani, in an attempt to regener the area.

about three dozen small firm were attract to the area, but it is thought the effect of the dot.com recess damag the lab' long-term surviv. the lab need about 10 million euro (us$13 million) a year from corpor sponsor to surviv. "in the end, it wa too deep and too long a recess," said simon jone, the lab' manag director. ian pearson, bt's futurologist, told the bbc new websit that the closur wa a "real shame". bt wa just on of the compani that had work with the lab, look at rfid tag develop and video conferenc. "there were a lot of veri talent, creativ peopl there and thei came up with some great idea that were help to ensur greater benefit of technolog for societi. "i have no doubt that the individu will be quickli snap up by other research lab, but the synergi from them work as a team will be lost."

noel dempsei, the govern's commun minist, said mr ahern had been "veri commit" to the project. "he is, i know, veri disappoint it ha come to thi. at the time it seem to be the right thing to do," he said. "unfortun the model is not a sustain on in the current climat."

dure it five year, innov and some unusu idea for technolog were develop. in recent month, 14 patent applic had been file by the lab. mani concept fed into scienc, engin, and psycholog as well as technolog, but it is thought too few of the idea were commerci viabl in the near-term. sever research team explor how which human could react with technolog in wai which were entir differ. the human connected group, for exampl, develop the iband, a bracelet which store and exchang inform about you and your relationship. thi inform could be beam to anoth wearer when two peopl shook hand. other project look at us other human sens, like touch, to interact with devoic which could be embed in the environ, or on the bodi itself. on project examin how brainwav could directli control a comput game. the lab, set up in an old guin breweri, hous around 100 peopl, made up of staff, research, student, collabor and part-time undergradu student. it is thought more than 50 peopl will lose their job when the lab close on 1 februari. accord to it latest account, media lab europ said it spent 8.16 million euro (about us$10.6 million) in 2003 and rais just 2.56 million euro (us$3.3 million).
