game help you 'learn and plai'

'god game' in which player must control virtual peopl and societi could be educ, sai research.

a us research ha suggest that game such as the sim could be a good wai to teach languag. ravi purushotma believ that the world of the sim can do a better job of teach vocabulari and grammar than tradit method. the inher fun of game plai could help to make learn languag much less of a chore, said mr purushotma.

there must be few parent or teacher that do not worri that the lure of a video game on a comput or consol is hard to resist by children that realli should be do their homework. but instead of fear comput game, ravi purushotma believ that educationalist, particularli languag teacher should embrac game. "on goal would be to break what i believ to be the fals assumpt that learn and plai ar inher opposit," he said. he believ that the "phenomen abil" of game such as the sim and other to captur the interest of adolesc audienc is ripe for exploit. the hard part of learn ani languag, said mr purushotma, were the basic part of learn what differ word refer to and how thei ar us to build up sentenc. bore lesson drum vocabulari into pupil couch in term thei do not understand ha made mani languag far harder to learn than thei should be. "the wai we often teach foreign languag right now is somewhat akin to learn to ride a bike by formal studi graviti," he said.

by contrast, said mr purushotma, learn via someth like the sim mai mean student do not feel like thei ar studi at all. thi wa becaus the sim doe not reli sole on word to get inform across to player. instead the action of it comput control peopl and how thei interact with their world often make clear what is go on. the incident inform about what a sim wa do could reinforc what a player or student wa suppos to be learn, said mr purushotma. by contrast mani languag lesson try to impart inform about a tongu with littl context. for instanc, he said, in a version of the sim adapt to teach german, if a player misunderstood what wa meant by the word "energi" the action of a tire sim, stumbl then fall asleep, would illustr the mean. if necessari detail textual inform could be call upon to aid player' or student' understand.

on of the drawback of the sim, said mr purushotma, wa the lack of spoken languag to help peopl brush up on pronunci. howev, onlin version of the sim, in which peopl have to move in, meet the neighbour and get to know the local town, could be adapt to help thi. although not wish to claim that he is the first to suggest us a game can help peopl learn, mr purushotma believ that educationalist have miss the potenti thei have to help.

get a simul person to perform everydai activ in a make-believ world and have them describ in a foreign languag could be a power learn aid, he believ. befor now, he said, educ softwar titl suffer by comparison with the slick graphic and rich world found in game. but, he said, us pre-prepar game world such as the sim ha never been easier becaus tool have been made by it creator and fan that make it easi to modifi almost ani part of the game. thi could make it easi for teacher to adapt part of the game for their own lesson. "i'm hope now to re-creat a well-polish german learn mod for the sequel by thi summer," he told the bbc new websit. "i'm encourag to hear that other ar think of experi with japanes and spanish." earlier work with a colleagu on us civilis iii to teach student about histori show that it could be a power wai to get them to realis that solv a societi's problem can not alwai come from make a singl chang. a report on the experi said: "student began ask histor and geograph question in the context of game plai, us geographi and histori as tool for their game, and draw infer about social phenomena base on their plai." mr purushotma's idea were air in an articl for the journal languag learn and technolog.
