peer-to-peer net 'here to stai'

peer-to-peer (p2p) network ar here to stai, and ar on the verg of be exploit by commerci media firm, sai a panel of industri expert.

onc sever high-profil legal case against file-sharer ar resolv thi year, firm will be veri keen to try and make monei from p2p technolog. the expert panel probe the futur of p2p at the consum electron show in la vega earlier in januari. the first convict for p2p piraci were hand out in the us in januari. william trowbridg and michael chicoin plead guilti to charg that thei infring copyright by illeg share music, movi and softwar. sinc the first success file-share network napster wa forc to close down, the entertain industri ha been nervou and critic of p2p technolog, blame it for fall sale and piraci. but that is go to chang veri soon, accord to the panel.

the music and film industri have start some big legal case against owner of legitim p2p network - which ar not illeg in themselv - and of individu accus of distribut pirat content over network. but thei have slowli realis that p2p is a good wai to distribut content, said travi kalanick, founder and chairman of p2p network red swoosh, and soon thei ar all go to want a slice of it. thei ar just wait to come up with "busi model" that work for them, which includ digit right manag and copi-protect standard.

but, until the legal action ar resolv, experiment with p2p cannot not happen, said michael weiss, presid of streamcast network. rememb the furor around vcr when thei first came out, mr weiss said: "old media alwai tri to stop new media. "when thei can't stop it, thei try to control it. then thei figur out how to make monei and thei alwai make a lot of monei." onc the court decid that the vcr in itself wa not an illeg technolog, the film studio turn it into an extrem lucr busi. in august 2004, the san francisco-base us court of appeal rule in favour of grokster and streamcast, two file-share network. the court said thei were essenti in the same posit that soni wa in the 1980s vcr battl, and said that the network themselv could not be deem as illeg.

p2p network usual do not reli on dedic server for the transfer of file. instead it us direct connect between comput - or client. there ar now mani differ type of p2p system than work in differ wai. p2p net can be us to share ani kind of file, like photo, free softwar, licens music and ani other digit content. the bbc ha alreadi decid to embrac the technolog. it aim to offer most of it own programm for download thi year and it will us p2p technolog to distribut them. the file would be lock seven dai after a programm air make right manag easier to control. but the technolog is still demonis and misunderstood by mani. the global entertain industri sai more than 2.6 billion copyright music file ar download everi month, and about half a million film ar download a dai. legal music download servic, like appl itun, napster, have rush into the music marketplac to try and lure file-sharer awai from free content. sale of legal-download song grew tenfold in 2004, with 200 million track bought onlin in the us and europ in 12 month, the ifpi report thi week. but such download servic ar veri differ from p2p network, not least becaus of the financi aspect.

there ar sever monei-spin model that could turn p2p into a golden egg for commerci entertain compani. paid-for-pass-along, in which firm receiv monei each time a file is share, along with variou drm solut and advertis-base option ar all be consid. "we see there ar go to be differ model for commoditis p2p," said marc morgenstern, vice presid of anti-piraci firm overp.

"consum ar hungri for it and we will discov new model togeth," agre mr morgenstern. but mani net user will continu to ignor the entertain industri's potenti control grip on content and p2p technolog by continu to us it for their own creation. unsign band, for exampl, us p2p network to distribut their music effect, which also draw the attent of record compani look for new artist to sign. "increasingli, what you ar see on p2p is consum-creat content," said derek broe, from microsoft. "thei will probabl pai an increas role in help p2p spread," he said. look into p2p's futur, file share is just the begin for p2p network, as far as mr broe is concern. "onc some of these issu ar resolv, you ar go to see aggress movement to protect content, but also in wai that ar unimagin now," he said. "file-share is the tip of the iceberg."
