mobil rack up 20 year of us

mobil phone in the uk ar celebr their 20th anniversari thi weekend.

britain's first mobil phone call wa made across the vodafon network on 1 januari 1985 by veteran comedian erni wise. in the 20 year sinc that dai, mobil phone have becom an integr part of modern life and now almost 90% of briton own a handset. mobil have becom so popular that mani peopl us their handset as their onli phone and rare us a landlin.

the first ever call over a portabl phone wa made in 1973 in new york but it took 10 year for the first commerci mobil servic to be launch. the uk wa not far behind the rest of the world in set up network in 1985 that let peopl make call while thei walk. the first call wa made from st katherin's dock to vodafon's head offic in newburi which at the time wa over a curri hous. for the first nine dai of 1985 vodafon wa the onli firm with a mobil network in the uk. then on 10 januari cellnet (now o2) launch it servic. mike caudwel, spokesman for vodafon, said that when phone were launch thei were the size of a briefcas, cost about £2,000 and had a batteri life of littl more than 20 minut.

"despit that thei were huge popular in the mid-80s," he said. "thei becam a yuppi must-have and a statu symbol among young wealthi busi folk." thi wa also despit the fact that the phone us analogu radio signal to commun which made them veri easi to eavesdrop on. he said it took vodafon almost nine year to rack up it first million custom but onli 18 month to get the second million. "it's veri easi to forget that in 1983 when we put the bid document in we were forecast that the total market would be two million peopl," he said. "cellnet wa forecast half that." now vodafon ha 14m custom in the uk alon. cellnet and vodafon were the onli mobil phone oper in the uk until 1993 when on2on (now t-mobil) wa launch. orang had it uk launch in 1994. both newcom oper digit mobil network and now all oper us thi technolog. the analogu spectrum for the old phone ha been retir. call global system for mobil (gsm) thi is now the most wide us phone technolog on the planet and is us to help more than 1.2 billion peopl make call. mr caudwel said the advent of digit technolog also help to introduc all those thing, such as text messag and roam that have made mobil so popular.
