door open at biggest gadget fair

thousand of technolog lover and industri expert have gather in la vega for the annual consum electron show (ce).

the fair showcas the latest technolog and gadget that will hit the shop in the next year. about 50,000 new product will be unveil as the show unfold. microsoft chief bill gate is to make a pre-show keynot speech on wednesdai when he is expect to announc detail of the next gener xbox.

the thrust of thi year's show will be on technolog which put peopl in charg of multimedia content so thei can store, listen to, and watch what thei want on devic ani time, anywher. about 120,000 peopl ar expect to attend the trade show which stretch over more than 1.5 million squar feet. highlight will includ the latest trend in digit imag, storag technolog, thinner flat screen and high-definit tv, wireless and portabl technolog, game, and broadband technolog. the show also includ sever speech from kei technolog compani such as intel, microsoft, and hewlett packard among other. "the stori thi year remain all about digit and how that is complet transform and revolutionis product and the wai peopl interact with them," jeff joseph, from the consum electron associ (cea) told the bbc new websit. "it is about personalis - take your mp3 player and creat your own playlist, take your digit video record and watch what you want to watch when - you ar no longer at the whim of the broadcast."

consum electron and gadget had a phenomen year in 2004, accord to figur releas by ce organis, the cea, on tuesdai. the gadget explos signal the strongest growth yet in the us in 2004. shipment of consum electron rose by almost 11% between 2003 and 2004. that trend is predict to continu, accord to cea analyst, with wholesal shipment of consum technolog expect to grow by 11% again in 2005. the fastest-grow technolog in 2004 includ blank dvd media, liquid crystal displai (lcd) tv, digit video record (dvr), and portabl music player. "thi year we will realli begin to see that come to life in what we call place shift - so if you have your pvr [person video record] in your live room, you can move that content around the hous. "some exhibitor will be showcas how you can take that content anywher," said mr joseph. he said the product which will be make wave in the next year will be about the "democratis" of content - devic and technolog that will give peopl the freedom to do more with music, video, and imag. there will also be more focu on the design of technolog, follow the lead that appl's ipod made, with eas of us and good look which appeal to a wider rang of peopl a kei concern.

the cea predict that there would be sever kei technolog trend to watch in the come year. game would continu to thrive, especi on mobil devic, and would reach out to more divers gamer such as women. game consol sale have been declin, but the launch of next gener consol, such as microsoft's xbox and playstat, could buoi up sale. although it ha been wide predict that mr gate would be showcas the new xbox, some media report have cast doubt on what he would be talk about in the keynot. some have suggest the announc mai take place at the game develop confer in the summer instead. with more than 52% of us home expect to have home network, the cea suggest hard drive box - or media server - capabl of store thousand of imag, video and audio file to be access through other devic around the home, will be more commonplac. portabl devic that combin mobil telephoni, digit music and video player, will also be more popular in 2005. their popular will be driven by more multimedia content and servic which will let peopl watch and listen to film, tv, and audio wherev thei ar. thi mean more storag technolog will be in demand, such as extern hard drive, and flash memori like sd card. ce run offici from 6 to 9 januari.
