microsoft debut secur tool

microsoft is releas tool that clean up pc harbour virus and spywar.

the viru-fight program will be updat monthli and is a precursor to microsoft releas dedic anti-viru softwar. also be releas is a softwar util that will help user find and remov ani spywar on their home comput. although initi free it is thought that soon microsoft will be charg user for the anti-spywar tool.

the anti-spywar tool is avail now and the anti-viru util is expect to be avail later thi month. microsoft's window oper system ha long been a favourit of peopl who write comput virus becaus it is so ubiquit and ha mani loophol that can be exploit. it ha prove such a tempt target that there ar now thought to be more than 100,000 virus and other malici program in exist. latest research suggest that new variant of virus ar be crank out at a rate of up to 200 per week. spywar is surreptiti softwar that sneak on to home comput, often without user' knowledg. in it most benign form it just bombard user with pop-up advert or hijack web browser set. the most malici form steal confidenti inform or log everi keystrok that user make. survei have shown that most pc ar infest with spywar. research by technolog firm earthlink and webroot reveal that 90% of window machin have the malici softwar on board and, on averag, each on harbour 28 separ spywar program. befor now microsoft ha left the market for pc secur softwar to specialist firm such as symantec, mcafe, trend micro and mani other. it said that it viru clean program would not stop machin be infect nor remov the need for other anti-viru program. on spywar freeli avail program such as ad-awar and spybot have becom wide us by peopl keen to keep the latest variant at bai. microsoft's two secur tool have emerg as a result of acquisit the compani ha made over the last two year. in 2003 it bought romanian firm gecad softwar to get hold of it anti-viru technolog. in decemb 2004 it bought new york-base anti-spywar firm giant compani softwar. last year microsoft also releas the sp2 upgrad for window xp that close mani secur loophol in the softwar and made it easier for peopl to manag their anti-viru and firewal program.
