file-swapper readi new network

legal attack on websit that help peopl swap pirat film have forc the develop of a system that could be harder to shut down.

on site behind the success of the bittorr file-swap system is produc it own softwar that avoid the pitfal of the earlier program. a test version of the new exeem program will be releas in late januari. but doubt remain about the new network abil to ensur file be swap ar "qualiti copi".

in late decemb movi studio launch a legal campaign against websit that help peopl swap pirat movi us the bittorr network. the legal campaign work becaus of the wai that bittorr is organis. that file-share system reli on link call "tracker" that point user to other happi to share the file thei ar look for. shut down site that list tracker crippl the bittorr network. on of the site shut down by the legal campaign wa suprnova.org which help boost the popular of the bittorr system by check that tracker led to the movi or tv programm thei claim to.

now the man behind suprnova.org, who goe by the nicknam sloncek, is prepar to releas softwar for a new file-swap network dub exeem. in an interview with novastream web radio, sloncek said exeem would combin idea from the bittorr and kazaa file-share system. like bittorr, exeem will have tracker that help point peopl toward the file thei want. like kazaa these tracker will be held by everyon. there will be no central maintain list. thi, said sloncek, should make the system less vulner to legal action aim at stop peopl swap pirat movi and music. the exeem softwar ha been under develop for a few month and is current be test by a close group of user. an earli public version of the softwar should be avail befor februari. sloncek said that current onli a window version of the softwar wa in develop. there were no plan for a linux or mac version. he said that cost of write the softwar will be paid for by advert appear in the finish version of the program. despit suprnova administr sloncek's involv with exeem, the basic technolog appear to have been develop by a firm call swarm system that is base on caribbean island saint kitt and nevi.

user of the exeem system will be abl to rate file be swap to help stop the spread of fake file, sloncek told novastream.

dr johan pouwels, a research at the delft univers of technolog who studi peer-to-peer network, said exeem wa the next evolut in file-share system. but, he said, it would struggl to be as popular as bittorr and suprnova becaus earli version were not take enough care to make sure good copi of file were be share. "exeem cannot prevent pollut," he said. "the rate system in exeem seem flaw becaus it is easi to insert both fake file and fake rate," he said. studi have shown that organis work for record label and movi studio have work to undermin kazaa by put in fake. by contrast moder on suprnova made sure file be share were high qualiti. "the moder ar the differ between have a system that work and on that's full of crap like kazaa," he said. "there is a fundament tension between distribut and integr," he said. mr pouwels said that futur version of file-share system ar like to incorpor some kind of distribut reput system that let moder prove who thei ar to the network and rate which file ar worth download. when big file were be share moder system were kei, said mr pouwels. he ad that the legal attack on bittorr had driven peopl awai from site such as suprnova but mani user had simpli migrat to other tracker list site mani of which have seen huge increas in traffic. "it's hard to compet with free," he said. no-on from the motion pictur associ of america wa immedi avail for comment on the file-share develop.
