appl unveil low-cost 'mac mini'

appl ha unveil a new, low-cost macintosh comput for the mass, bill as the mac mini.

chief execut steve job show off the new machin at hi annual macworld speech, in san francisco. the $499 macintosh, sold for £339 in the uk, wa describ by job as the "most import mac" made by appl. mr job also unveil the ipod shuffl, a new music player us cheaper flash memori rather than hard drive, which ar us in more expens ipod.

the new comput shift the compani into new territori - tradition, the firm is known as a design and innov-led firm rather than as a mass-market manufactur. the mac mini come without a monitor, keyboard and mous, and a second version with a larger hard drive will also be sold for $599.

the machin - which will be avail from 22 januari - wa describ by job as "byodkm... bring your own displai, keyboard, and mous". in an attempt to win over window pc custom, mr job said it would appeal to peopl think of chang oper system. "peopl who ar think of switch will have no more excus," he said. "it's the newest and most afford mac ever." the new comput ha been the subject of specul for sever week and while few peopl will be surpris by the announc mani analyst had alreadi said it wa a sensibl move. in januari, appl su a websit after it publish what it said were specif for the new comput. ian harri, deputi editor of uk magazin mac format, said the machin would appeal to pc-own consum who had purchas an ipod.

"thei want a further tast of mac becaus thei like what thei have seen with ipod." harri ad: "everybodi thought that appl wa happi to remain a nich maker of luxuri comput, and move into a market domin by low margin manufactur like dell is a bold move. "but it show that appl is keen to capitalis on the mass market success it's had with the ipod. the mac mini will appeal to pc user look for an attract, 'no fuss' comput." the new ipod shuffl come in two version - on offer 512mb of storag for $99 (£69 in the uk) and a second with on gigabyt of storag for $149 (£99) - and went on sale tuesdai. the music player ha no displai and will plai song either consecut or shuffl. the smaller ipod will hold about 120 song, said mr job. mr job told the deleg at macworld that ipod alreadi had a 65% market share of all digit music player.
