napster offer rent music to go

music download, for those that have reject the free peer to peer servic, can be a costli busi.

the cost of pai even as littl as 70p per track can add up, particularli for those peopl who own on of the new gener of player that can store thousand of song. pai per track for music is becom as outmod as pai per minut for internet access and altern monthli or yearli subscript model ar spring up as a more conveni, and ultim cheaper wai of own music.

"music fan ar move awai from bui the tradit bundl packag of a dozen or more song that we us to call an album to newer wai that fit their lifestyl; either singl track or subscript servic," said paul myer, chief execut of wippit, a uk-base music download servic. while itun is do good busi with it sale of individu track to ipod owner, other ar question whether the concept of own music is even valid in the digit ag. napster is due to launch a new rental subscript servic - dub napster to go in the uk in the next few month. the servic can be us on player that support microsoft window latest digit right manag technolog known as janu. thi includ player made by samsung, rio and creativ.

current on offer in beta-version in the us, the servic cost $15 per month for unlimit download. the technolog ensur that music download to the player onli remain playabl while the user subscrib to the servic. user need to updat their licens on a monthli basi or the tune will no longer plai.

thi ha outrag some digit music lover, especi as napster alreadi offer a cheaper servic for download music to the pc. napster claim the higher price is a result of record label charg more for the to-go servic and sai it also offer "greater valu" for custom. mr myer is not convinc a rental model will work for consum. "we've been offer our unlimit music subscript servic for more than three year now and our custom know what thei want. format interoper, excel valu and the reassur that music purchas from wippit is their to keep and enjoi on whatev devic thei choos," he said. "who want to download a track that won't plai next month if you decid to unsubscrib to the servic or chang portabl player for an ipod or the latest mobil phone?" wippit offer a download subscript servic for £4.99 per month or £50 per year. it ha a catalogu of around 60,000 song.
