ring of steel combat net attack

gambl is huge popular, especi with tech-savvi crimin.

mani extortionist ar target net-base bet firm and threaten to crippl their websit with delug of data unless a ransom is paid. but now deep defenc ar be put in place by some of the uk's biggest net firm to stop these attack. increas number of attack and the huge amount of data be us to try to bump a site off the web ar prompt firm to adopt the measur. "net firm ar realis that it's not just about anti-viru and firewal," said paul king, chief secur architect at cisco. "there ar more thing that can be done in the network to protect data centr." mr king said the onli wai to properli combat these so-call distribut denial-of-servic attack wa with intellig net-base system. mani of the gambl site suffer ddo attack ar in offshor data and host centr, so ani larg scale data flood could knock out access to mani more site than just the on the crimin were target, said mr king. thi overspil effect wa onli like to grow as attack grow in size and scale.

malcolm seagrav, secur expert at energi, said the most common type of attack hit site with 10 megabyt of data over short period of time. bigger attack send down 200 megabyt of traffic or more were rare seen, he said. "it doe feel like thei ar turn the dial becaus you see thi traffic gradual grow," he said.

so far there have been no attack involv gigabyt of data, said mr seagrav. howev, he ad that it wa onli a matter of time befor such larg attack were mount. maria capella, spokeswoman for net provid pipex, said that when ddo attack were at their height, custom were get hit everi four to five dai. the defenc be put in place constantli monitor the stream of data flow across network and pluck out the traffic destin for target site. "it's about understand what's genuin traffic and keep attack traffic from go to the site," she said. "we studi the profil of their traffic and as soon as we see an anomali in the profil that's when we start to get the backbon engin boi to see if we ar go to sustain an attack," said ms capella. thi traffic can be hard to spot becaus ddo attack typic us thousand of comput in mani differ countri, each particip machin onli send a small part of the entir data flood.

typic these comput have been infect by a viru or worm which report it success and the net address of compromis machin back to the malici hacker or hi-tech crimin that set off the viru. hijack comput ar known as zombi or 'bot and collect of them ar call 'bot net. mani spammer rent out 'bot net to help them anonym send junk mail.

most of the zombi ar base outsid the countri that host the target site so get the attack pc shut off can be difficult. often pipex and other net supplier do get advanc notic that an attack is about to happen. "the seriou player tend to preced an attack with some kind of ransom e-mail," said ms capella. "we ask, as part of the servic we provid, that custom notifi us of anyth thei have in advanc that would give us forewarn." onc an attack is spot dedic net hardwar take over to remov the attack traffic and ensur that site stai up. energi took a similar approach, said mr seagrav. "we have technolog out there that allow us to detect attack in minut rather than let network engin spend hour pull the inform togeth," said mr seagrav. also net firm were start to work more close togeth on the problem of ddo attack and pool inform about where thei ar come from. inform gather on attack and where thei origin ha led to some arrest. he said energi also did it own intellig work to get in insight into which site crimin gang plan to target. "we have peopl in place where thei shouldn't be, monitor tech site," he said. sometim though, he said, spot the next victim wa easi. "you can see them go alphabet through the list with the gambl site, try on after anoth," said mr seagrav.
