appl mac mini get warm welcom

the mac mini ha been welcom by appl fan, industri expert and pc user.

the releas of the tini, low-cost machin is seen as a good move for appl which current ha a small share of the desktop comput market. mac watcher and some analyst sai the mac mini will go a long wai to help appl appeal to the mass of consum. thei specul that the mac mini will be bought by ipod owner and those want an easi-to-us and administ second home comput.

"it's the bravest move thei have made yet," said jonni evan, new editor at macworld magazin. mr evan said the combin of low cost, small size and huge number of ipod user could make it a big success.

he thought that the machin would appeal to those that like appl technolog but who befor now have balk at pai high price for it hardwar. "it's deepli afford," he said. "plu you know that you do not get virus or all of the associ problem." alreadi, he said, pc own friend had declar that thei would be bui on. interest in the new product launch at macworld expo wa so strong that websit for appl's store and the show struggl to cope with demand. accord to respons statist gather by netcraft mani visit the appl store in the wake of mr job' speech suffer lengthi respons time. the macworld expo site wa complet overwhelm and went offlin.

"i think fundament it's a good idea becaus it's cheap even for a pc," said nick ross, deputi lab editor at pc pro. appl's work on make thing easi to us would also help the mac mini win fan, he said. "i think peopl expect it just to work now and realli it should," hesaid. the mac mini could find a role in home that need a second comput that is easi to instal and administ, he said. "for brows the web, e-mail and all kind of basic duti it's go to be absolut adequ," said mr ross. ian fogg, broadband and person technolog analyst at jupit research, agre that the mac mini could be veri popular. "appl ha been hope that sale of the ipod will have a halo effect on the sale of the mac," he said.

befor now, he said, appl ha been seen as a premium brand. but, he said, the mac mini chang that percept. "it's a particularli good price when you see that it's appl that is do it," he said. appl expect the mac mini to sell for £339 in the uk and $499 in the us. ad extra such as a larger hard drive, more memori and network option will increas the basic price. it will go on sale from 22 januari. "for consum interest in style, design and small size - which is what the major of ipod custom ar interest in - it's a natur next step," said mr fogg. appl ha tradition done well in the market that the mac mini is aim at, said mr fogg, who also expect mani pc maker to releas copycat devic in reaction.

hi onli misgiv were over how easi other consum, other than ipod owner, would find us the machin. he said anyon want to us the mac mini with the peripher from an old comput mai find it odd to have someth so small and sleek next to a hulk monitor. "thei'd be much more like to pair a mac mini with a lcd or flat panel monitor which increas the upgrad cost," he said. those with flat screen and lcd monitor ar like to have bought them recent and not be in the market for a new machin.

there ar also question over whether the mac mini will work with veri old peripher, such as displai, keyboard and mous. the mac mini also fell short of be a media server that can be a video record as well as a store for all the digit music, movi and imag peopl accumul, said mr fogg. "the mac mini is not quit readi for that yet," he said. "it doe not have the right connector that fit a tv screen or enough storag." said mr fogg: "it's veri much a comput." on dissent opinion came from brian gammag, vice-presid of research at analyst gartner. he said: "i don't think it chang the world." although the mac mini wa veri cheap for an appl comput, it wa still expens compar to mani pc. also, he said, it appeal in categori that few consum care about when bui a home comput. "the pc world is a pile-em-high, sell-em-cheap market," he said, "and all of them ar pretti interchang." "sinc the dai when appl rule the person comput world it market share ha been on a long, slow declin," he said. "everi few year it doe someth to give it market share a kick then it start to go back down again," said mr gammag. the releas of the mac mini fit perfectli with thi trend, he said.
