rival of the £400 appl...

the mac mini is the cheapest appl comput ever. but though it is cheap for a mac how doe it compar to pc that cost about the same amount? dot.life tri to find out if you can you get more for your monei if you stick with the beig box.





an extrem small comput that is design to bring the macintosh to the mass.

appl offer a less power mac mini for £339 but the £399 model ha a 1.4ghz power pc chip, 80 gigabyt hard drive, combin cd burner/dvd player. it come equip with usb and firewir port for peripher connect, ethernet port for broadband, a port for standard video output and an audio/headphon jack.the machin come with mac os x, the appl oper system, the softwar suit ilif, which includ itun, iphoto, imovi, idvd and garageband.

a monitor, keyboard or mous. there is also no built-in support for wireless technolog or ani speaker. the lack of a dvd burner is an omiss in the ag of back-up import softwar. wireless and a dvd burner can be ad at extra cost.

appl ar target peopl who alreadi have a main comput and want to upgrad - especi pc user who have us an appl ipod.

compact and stylish, the mac mini would not look out of place in ani home. appl comput ar famous user friendli and offer much better network secur, which mean fewer virus. the packag of softwar that come with the machin is the best monei can bui.

the mac mini is just a box. if you don't alreadi have a monitor etc, ad them to the packag see the valu for monei begin to dwindl. mac don't offer the upgrad flexibl of a pc and the machin's specif lack the hors power for task such as high-end video edit or game.

"the mac mini put the macintosh within the reach of everyon," an appl spokesman said. "it will bring more custom to the platform, especi pc user and owner."



an entri-level machin design for basic home us.

a 2.6ghz intel celeron chip, 40 gigabyt hard drive, 256mb, combin cd burner/dvd player. it come equip with a 17 inch monitor, keyboard and mous. the machin ha 6 usb port and an ethernet port for broadband connect. there's also a port for standard video output. the machin come with window xp home edit. it provid basic home tool such as a media player and word processor.

a dvd burner, or ani wireless compon built in. wireless and a dvd burner can be ad at extra cost.

home and small offic, includ those look to add a low cost second comput.

cost is the clear advantag. the dell provid enough power and softwar for basic game and internet surf. it's easili upgrad so a bigger hard drive, better sound and graphic card can be ad.

the dell is hardli stylish and the hard drive is on the small size for anyon want to store photo or a decent size digit music collect.

"thi machin is for small busi and for peopl who want a second comput for basic home us, perhap in a kid bedroom," a spokesman for dell said. "i think we offer better valu onc you realis all the extra need for the mac mini."



a desktop comput that pc pro magazin dub best perform in a group test of machin that cost onli £399 (£469 includ vat).

a good basic pc that, accord to pc pro, ha "superb upgrad potenti". for your monei you get a 1.8ghz amd sempron processor, 512mb of ram, 120gb hard drive, dvd writer, 16-inch monitor, mous, keyboard and window xp2

much more than the basic. it cannot handl 3d graphic and ha no firewir slot.

those on a limit budget who want a machin thei can add to and improv as their cash allow.

it's cheap and ha plenti of room to improv but that could end up make it expens in the long run. it's a good basic workhors.

it's not pretti and ha a monitor rather than a flat-panel displai. some of the upgrad offer by jal to the basic model ar pricei. you might find that you want to chop and chang quit quickli.

nick ross, deputi lab editor at pc pro, said the import point about bui a cheap and cheer pc is the upgrad path. interest ha switch from processor power to graphic and sound card as that's what make the differ in game. "even manufactur ar not go to be market machin as faster," he said, "thei'll emphasis the differ featur."



a comput built from bit you bui and put togeth yourself.

a surprisingli good pc sport an amd athlon xp 2500 processor, 512 megabyt ram, a graphic card with 128 ram on board plu tv out, a 40 gb hard drive, cd-writer and dvd player, window xp home.

anyth els. you're build it so you have to bui all the softwar you want to instal and do your own troubl-shoot and tech support. build your own machin is easier than it us to be but you need to read specif carefulli to make sure all part work togeth.

experienc and keen pc user. build your own pc, or upgrad the on you have, is a great wai to improv your understand of how it all work.

it's cheap, you can specifi exactli what you want and you get the thrill of put it togeth yourself. and a bigger thrill if everyth work as it should.

onc it's built you won't be abl to do much with it until you start bui softwar for it. if it start to go wrong it might take a lot of fix. as gavin cox of the excel buildyourown.org.uk websit put it: "it will be tough to obtain/build a pc to ever be as compact and charm as the mac mini."

"perform-wise, it's not 'cut edg' and is bare entri-level by todai's market, but up against the mac mini, i believ it will hold it own and even pull a few more trick," sai gavin cox. the good new is that the machin is emin expand. by contrast, sai mr cox, the mac mini is almost dispos.
