speak easi plan for media player

music and film fan will be abl to control their digit media player just by speak to them, under plan in develop by two us firm.

scansoft and gracenot ar develop technolog to give peopl access to their film and music librari simpli by voic control. thei want to give peopl hand-free access to digit music and film in the car, or at home or on the move. huge media librari on some player can make find singl song hard. "voic command-and-control unlock the potenti of devic that can store larg digit music collect," said ross blanchard, vice presid of busi develop for gracenot. "these applic will radic chang the car entertain experi, allow driver to enjoi their entir music collect without ever take their hand off the steer wheel," he ad.

gracenot provid music librari inform for million of differ album for jukebox such as appl's itun. the new technolog will be design so that peopl can plai ani individu song or movi out of a collect, just by sai it name. user will also be abl to request music that fit a mood or an occas, or a film just by sai the actor's name. "speech is a natur fit for todai's consum devic, particularli in mobil environ," said alan schwartz, vice presid of speechwork, a divis of scansoft. "pair our voic technolog with gracenot's vast music databas will bring the benefit of speech technolog to a host of consum devic and enabl peopl to access their media in wai thei've never imagin." the two firm did not sai if thei were develop the technolog for languag other than english. user will also be abl to get more inform on a favourit song thei have been listen to by ask: "what is thi?" portabl player ar becom popular in car and a number of auto firm ar work with appl to devic interfac to control the firm's ipod music player. but with ten of thousand of song abl to be store on on player, voic control would make find that elus track by elvi preslei much easier. the firm gave no indic about whether the ipod, or ani other media player, were in mind for the us of the voic control technolog. the compani estim that the technolog will be avail in the fourth quarter of 2005.
