format war could 'confus user'

technolog firm soni, philip, matsushita and samsung ar develop a common wai to stop peopl pirat digit music and video.

the firm want to make a system that ensur file plai on the hardwar thei make but also thwart illeg copi. the move could mean more confus for consum alreadi face by mani differ, and conflict, content control system, expert warn. thei sai there ar no guarante the system will even prevent piraci.

current mani onlin store wrap up download file in an own-brand control system that mean thei can onli be plai on a small number of media player. system that limit what peopl can do with the file thei download ar known as digit right manag system. by set up the allianc to work on a common control system, the firm said thei hope to end thi current fragment of file format. in a joint statement the firm said thei want to let consum enjoi "appropri licens video and music on ani devic, independ of how thei origin obtain that content". the firm hope that it will also make it harder for consum to make illeg copi of the music, movi and other digit content thei have bought. call the marlin joint develop associ, the allianc will defin basic specif that everi devic made by the electron firm will conform to. marlin will be built on technolog from right manag firm intertrust as well as an earlier drm system develop by a group known as the coral consortium.

the move is wide seen as a wai for the four firm to decid their own destini on content control system instead of have to sign up for those be push by appl and microsoft. confusingli for consum, the technolog that come out of the allianc will sit alongsid the content control system of rival firm such as microsoft and appl. "in mani wai the differ drm system ar akin to the differ physic format, such as betamax and vh, that consum have seen in the past," said ian fogg, person technolog and broadband analyst at jupit research. "the differ is that it is veri fragment," he said. "it's not a two-hors race, it's a five, six, seven or even eight-hors race" mr fogg said consum had to be veri care when bui digit content to ensur that it would plai on the devic thei own. he said current there were even incompat within drm famili. although initi such as microsoft's "plai for sure" program could help remov some of the uncertainti, he said, life wa like to be confus for consum for some time to come.

shellei taylor, analyst and author of a report about onlin music servic, said the lock and limit on digit file were done to maximis the cash that firm can make from consum. appl's itun servic wa a perfect exampl of thi, she said. "although itun ha been huge success, appl could not justifi it exist if it did not help sell all those ipod," she said.

she said rampant competit between onlin music servic, of which there ar now 230 accord to recent figur, could drive more open and freer file format. "it alwai work out that consum need win out in the long run," she said, "and the servic that win in the long run ar the on that listen to consum earliest." ms taylor said the limit legal download servic place on file could help explain the continu popular of file-share system that let peopl get hold of pirat pop. "peopl want portabl," she said, "and with peer-to-peer thei have 100% portabl." cori doctorow, european co-ordin for the electron frontier foundat which campaign for consum on mani cyber-right issu, express doubt that the marlin system would achiev it aim. "not on of these system ha ever prevent piraci or illeg copi," he said. he said mani firm readili admit that their drm system ar littl protect against skill attack such as the organis crime gang that ar respons for most piraci. instead, said mr doctorow, drm system were intend to control the group that electron firm have most hold over - consum. "the studio and label perceiv an opportun to sell you your media again and again - the ipod version, the auto version, the american and uk version, the rington version, and so on."
