mobil get set for visual radio

the growth in the mobil phone market in the past decad ha been noth less than astonish, but the abil to commun on the go is not the onli reason we ar hook. game, camera and music player have all been ad to our handset in the last few year, but 2005 could see anoth big innov that won't just see a chang in our mobil phone habit - it might alter the wai we listen to the radio. finnish handset giant nokia ha been work on a technolog call visual radio, which take an exist fm signal from a radio station and enabl that station to add enhanc such as inform and pictur. it is not the first time that such an idea ha been suggest - the earli dai of dab digit radio had similar intent that never realli saw the light of dai.

on problem is that the name visual radio lead peopl to think of televis but reidar waseniu, a senior project manag at nokia, wa adam that visual radio should not be confus with the more tradit medium. he said: "i'm veri happi to sai it's not televis, what we're talk about is an enhanc of radio as we know it todai. "if you have a visual radio enabl handset, when you hear an artist you don't know, or there's a competit or vote that you'd like to particip in, you pull out your handset and with on click you turn on a visual channel parallel to the on-air broadcast you've just been listen to."

that visual channel is run from a comput within the radio station, and send out differ kind of inform to the handset depend on what you ar listen to. as well as detail on the track or artist of a particular song, there is also the abil to interact immedi with the radio station itself, in a similar wai to digit televis's "red button" content.

possibl interact content includ competit, vote and even the chanc to rate the song that is plai. but the interact aspect will make the servic especi attract to radio station, who will be abl to track the number of peopl take part in such activ on a real-time basi. thi in turn should lead to an addit sourc of revenu, as it is veri like that advertis will be keen to exploit new opportun to reach listen.

as the visual radio content is transmit by exist gpr technolog you would need to have that servic enabl by your network. and there will be a cost for the servic as well, although it mai depend on your usag. "if you enjoi the visual channel occasion and interact it'll be two or three pound per month," said mr waseniu. "but typic what we see happen is the oper offer a packag deal for an 'all you can eat' arrang per month." the payment system could therefor be similar to the wai that broadband internet work versu dial-up connect. on thing that is for sure - assum that nokia retain it market share in handset, it is estim that there will be 100 million visual radio-enabl mobil phone in circul by the end of 2006. "basic, visual radio is not realli revolutionari, but rather an evolut where we ar provid tool with which peopl can particip in radio much more easili than ever befor."

the first visual radio servic in the uk will begin in a few month time with virgin radio, who ar posit about the impact it could have on their listen. station manag steve taylor comment: "listen can interact with the radio station in a new wai. "not onli doe thi give listen more inform on the music we plai but mean thei can instantli purchas thing thei like; mp3 music download and the latest gig ticket." initi visual radio function will be limit to two nokia handset due out soon - the 3230 and 7710 - but if success, it is veri like that other manufactur will want to join them.

listen again to the interview on the radio five live websit.
