gamer could drive high-definit

tv, film, and game have been gear up for some time now for the next revolut to transform the qualiti of what is on our screen.

it is call high-definit - hd for short - and it is alreadi huge popular in japan and the us. it is set, accord to analyst, to do for imag what cd did for sound. differ equip abl to receiv hd signal is need though and is expens. but europ's gamer mai be the earli adopt to drive demand. european will have to wait until at least 2006 until thei see mainstream hdtv.

to view it, it need to be transmit in hd format, and peopl need special receiv and displai that can handl the high-qualiti resolut. the next gener of consol, howev, ar expect to start appear at the end of 2005, start of 2006. and most new comput displai and plasma set ar alreadi capabl of handl such high-resolut pictur. "in the next gener [of consol] hd support is mandatori," dr mark tuffi game system director at digit content firm thx told the bbc new websit. "everi game is go to be playabl in hd. "so consum who have gone out and spent all thi monei on hdtv, and who have no content to watch, ar go to be blown awai by these realli high-detail pictur. "it's go to chang realli the wai thei look at game."

at the end of last year, chri deer, soni's european presid, made a predict that 20 million european household would have hdtv set by 2008. a previou predict from analyst datamonitor put the figur at 4.6 million by 2008, an increas from an estim 50,000 set at the end of 2003. but those in europ mai see littl point in bui what is quit an expens bit of technolog - about £2,000 - if there ar few programm or film to watch on them. satellit broadcast bskyb is plan hdtv servic in 2006 and the bbc intend to produc all of it content in hd by 2010.

until broadcast right, format standard - and the practic of updat equip - ar agre, tv content will be limit. all tv imag ar made up of pixel which go across the screen, and scan line which go down the screen. most standard uk tv pictur ar made up of 625 line and about 700 pixel. hd offer up to 1,080 activ line, with each line made up of 1,920 pixel. thi mean the pictur is up to six time as sharp as standard tv. "probabl, in the uk [game] is go to be the onli thing you ar go to realli be abl to show off, as in 'look what thi tv can do', until hd is realli adopt by broadcast," explain dr tuffi. but gamer ar also the ideal target audienc for hd becaus thei alwai crave better qualiti graphic, and more immers game experi. thei ar us to spend monei on hardwar to match a game's requir. demograph have chang too and the "sweet spot" for the game industri is the gamer in hi or her late 20s. thi mean thei ar like to have higher dispos incom and can afford the price of big-screen, high-definit displai technolog and hd projector, earlier than other.

higher capac storag disc, such as hd-dvd and blue-rai , ar set to be standard in the next round of game consol - allow develop more room for detail graphic.

for consol develop though, hd offer some product chang. it could make game product slightli more expens, think dr tuffi. "but we mai see the cross-platform develop of game becom more common becaus thei will more easili be abl to take a pc game and appli it to a consol," he sai. "you ar liter go to get to the point, with a lord of the ring game for exampl, is go to be closer and closer to the actual film, especi the cgi stuff from the dvd. "and the transit when thei move from a cut scene to the game, just now thei have almost got it seamless." with hd, he sai, the transit will be complet seamless and the same qualiti as the big-screen cinema releas. thi could herald an increas converg between the film and game industri. but it mai not be until the gener after the next game consol where the two industri realli collid. at that point, sai dr tuffi, game could becom more or less interact movi.
