how to make a greener comput

the hi-tech industri is start to get more environment awar. bill thompson think it's about time.

my first car ran on four star petrol and pump vast quantiti of lead into the atmospher as i drove around cambridg. now you can't bui petrol with lead addit, and we're all better off as a result. chip giant intel recent began ship comput circuit board that ar lead free too, reflect a grow awar on the part of the technolog industri that product have to be design and built in more environment friendli wai.

apart from reduc the us of toxic materi like arsen, mercuri, cadmium and other heavi metal in the product themselv, the manufactur process is also be clean up, with fewer complex and potenti damag organ chemic us as solvent. and work is go into make power suppli that ar more energi effici, sinc current transform ar astonishingli wast as thei charg our laptop, mobil and music player.

on of the kei aspect of the new approach is to design product that ar easier to recycl. if you have got a phone or a comput with toxic chemic or heavi metal in it then extract them can be tricki and expens. a well-design electron compon is abl to be recycl at low cost. thi is go to be veri import to hardwar manufactur in europ sinc from august the new wast electron and electr equip direct will oblig them to accept return product for recycl.

thei will end up pai if thei build thing that ar expens or imposs to take apart and will find their profit hit, someth which is like to motiv them where appeal to the wider public interest might fall on deaf ear. it is, as thei sai, about time. we have a long and depress histori of develop new technolog with complet disregard for their potenti impact on the environ, and wait until there is a crisi loom befor we try to redesign them to caus less damag. the car engin is a case in point: lead addit help stop petrol vapour explod too earli in the cylind, a phenomenon call 'knock', so thei were simpli us without ani real thought for the fact that the lead would end up in the atmospher. redesign engin and make petrol slightli differ wa a lot more work, so it took decad befor it wa done. we're see the same thing in the technolog industri and, as a result, there ar billion of devic, from old mobil phone to antiqu handheld, that will have to be recycl in year to come. if appl get it wai then a lot of peopl ar go to be bui a new mac mini and throw awai their old pc, keep the monitor and other peripher.

even if appl doe not get it wai, four or five-year-old comput ar not good enough to run modern program and it's not unreason to replac them. but what do we do with the old on?

i've just look around my offic and i find two monitor, an old 386 pc, two old handheld, three ancient laptop, four antiqu mobil phone, a collect of recharg batteri and even a sun workstat that is no longer realli much us. thei ar all old enough to be hazard wast - the monitor alon will be full of arsen and lead - but it's possibl that some of the compon could be us. i could take them up the to the council recycl centr, but it's a 10-mile drive awai across town, and like mani other peopl my commit to recycl is shallow at best. here in cambridg we have green bin for compost wast, a box for glass, can and paper that can be recycl, and a black bin for the rest. there ar bottl bank and cloth bank scatter around town and in supermarket car park. would it be too much to ask for an electron recycl box too? i'd probabl rememb to take my old mobil with me to the supermarket and drop it in a box - at least eventu.

bill thompson is a regular comment on the bbc world servic programm go digit.
