microsoft make anti-piraci move

microsoft sai it is clamp down on peopl run pirat version of it window oper system by restrict their access to secur featur.

the window genuin advantag scheme mean peopl will have to prove their softwar is genuin from mid-2005. it will still allow those with unauthoris copi to get some crucial secur fix via automat updat, but their option would be "limit". microsoft releas regular secur updat to it softwar to protect pc. either pc detect updat automat or user manual download fix through microsoft's site. those run pirat window program would not have access to other download and "add-on" that the softwar giant offer.

peopl who try to manual download secur patch will have to let microsoft run an autom check procedur on their comput or give an identif number.

microsoft's regular patch which it releas for newli-found secur flaw ar import becaus thei stop worm, virus and other threat penetr pc. some secur expert ar concern that restrict access to such patch could mean a rise in such attack and threat, with more pc left unprotect. but graham clulei, senior consult at secur firm sopho, told the bbc new websit that it wa a posit decis. "it sound like their decis to allow critic secur patch to remain avail to both legitim and illegitim user of window is good new for everyon who us the net," he said. window genuin advantag wa first introduc as a pilot scheme in septemb 2004 for english-languag version of window.

microsoft's window oper system is heavili exploit by viru writer becaus it is so widespread and thei ar constantli seek out new secur loophol to take advantag of. the compani is try to tackl secur threat whilst crack down on pirat softwar at the same time. softwar piraci ha cost the compani billion, it sai. the compani announc earlier in januari that it wa releas secur tool to clean up pc harbour virus and spywar, which 90% of pc ar infect with. the viru-fight program, updat monthli, is a precursor to microsoft's dedic anti-viru softwar. last year it introduc the window xp counterfeit project, a uk-base pilot scheme, which ran from novemb to decemb. the scheme meant that anyon with pre-instal copi of the oper system in pc bought befor novemb could replac counterfeit version of window xp with legal on for free. it is also increas effort to squash softwar piraci in china, norwai and the czech republ, where pirat softwar is a huge problem, by offer discount on legitim softwar to user of pirat copi window. "china in particular is a problem, with piraci estim at 92%," said mr clulei.
