what's next for next-gen consol?

the next gener of video game consol ar in develop but what will the new machin mean for game firm and consum? we mai not know when thei will be releas, what thei will be call or even what thei will be abl to do but on thing is certain - thei ar come. soni, microsoft and nintendo ar all expect to releas new machin in the next 18 month. the detail of playstat 3, xbox 2 (codenam xenon) and nintendo's so-call revolut ar still to be finalis but develop ar have to work on titl for the new machin regardless.

"we know mayb what the ps3 will do, but we can onli guess," said rori arm, studio gener manag for video game giant electron art in europ. "it's a horrend effort in the first year," he admit. microsoft had deliv develop kit to ea, said mr arm, but he said the compani wa still wait on soni and nintendo to send kit. although the detail mai not be nail down, mr arm said ea wa begin to get a sens of the capabl of the new machin. "the rumour ar that playstat 3 will have a littl more under the hood [than xbox 2]," he said.

"microsoft is obvious a softwar compani first and foremost, while soni ha more experi in hardwar. i think soni will be abl to push more into a box at cost."

what is certain is that the new machin will provid great leap in process and graphic power. it is also like that thei will contain converg technolog to make the machin more of an entertain hub. at the consum electron show in la vega microsoft boss bill gate said xbox 2 would be part of hi vision of the digit lifestyl. while short on detail, he paint a pictur of a machin that would complement a pc and offer "great video game but video game for a broader set of peopl, more commun, more media, more connect". soni is thought to have a similar vision for ps3 while nintendo remain focus on a machin pure for game.

until it is clear precis what the new machin can do, develop ar work on a first round of titl to har the new horsepow. gari dunn, develop director at codemast, said the compani had a central technolog group which wa at the forefront of prepar for the next gener of consol. "we ar work on new librari of effect. a lot of the major techniqu ar alreadi out there and in us in pc game, such as pixel shader and normal map."

mr dunn said he expect the introduct of real-world physic to be a major part of the new consol. "we want to increas that level of immers and realism in game to peopl can lose themselv in a game." in the first year at least, develop said gamer should not expect game which har the full potenti of the machin. graphic spit and polish and better physic in line with the capabl of current high-end graphic card for pc should be expect. simon gardner, presid of climax's action studio, said: "it's definit an excit time. we want to give more freedom to the player. we want to give player an emot connect to the charact thei plai. "the environ will be much more believ and dramat, grow and chang as you plai. "there will be a breadth of effect, more involv world to plai in.

"it's a bit like be an artist and be given a bigger canva and a smaller brush. we're be given more tool. "for the averag consum, we can get thing of a more filmic qualiti." gerhard florin, head of ea in europ, said gamer should expect titl that blur the line between film and video game. mani will be sceptic - gamer were given similar predict dure the last transit of consol hardwar - but thi time it would seem to be more like. "ps3 will provid graphic indistinguish from movi," said mr florin. he said the distribut method for game would also chang radic in the next round of consol. "a gamer could bui a starter disc for 10 euro. when he goe home he goe onlin and he could bui ai and level as you go.

"it's much smarter if you can get level as you go." mr arm warn that develop still had to learn how to tell stori effect in the medium. "in some wai we ar try to forget about the hardwar, go in the opposit direct. we have been veri bad at let technolog design our creativ. "what we have to do as a compani is start ignor the technolog and learn our craft in tell stori." mr gardner agre: "we can thrown more polygon around and have better ai but if it doesn't make for a better game then that's not veri us." develop will certainli have the tool with the new machin, but how thei emploi them is still to be decid.
