what high-definit will do to dvd

first it wa the humbl home video, then it wa the dvd, and now hollywood is prepar for the next revolut in home entertain - high-definit.

high-definit give incred, 3d-like pictur and surround sound. the dvd disk and the gear to plai them will not be out for anoth year or so, and there at ar still a number of issu to be sort out. but when high-definit film do come out on the new format dvd, it will profoundli chang home entertain. for rick dean, director of busi develop for digit content compani thx, a high-definit futur is an excit prospect. he ha work on the star war dvd trilogi, find nemo, the incred and indiana jone. "there wa a time not so long ago when the film world and the video world were two complet separ world," he told the bbc new websit.

"the technolog we ar deal with now mean thei ar veri much conjoin. "the film that we see in theatr is come from the same digit file that we take the home video master," he sai. but current, put a master featur film onto dvd requir sever compress becaus current dvd technolog cannot hold as much as high-definit film demand. "as much as you compress the pictur data rate wise, you also take qualiti awai from the pictur that we fight so hard to keep in the master," he explain. "i would love to be abl to show peopl what project that we work on realli look like in the high-def world and i find it veri excit."

high-definit dvd can hold up to six time more data than the dvd we ar us to. it will take time though to persuad peopl who spent monei on dvd player to bui the differ player and displai requir to watch high-definit dvd in 18 month' time. mr dean is confid though: "i think if thei see real hd [high-definit], not some heavili compress version of it, there is such a remark differ. "i have heard comment from peopl who sai the imag pop off the screen."

high-definit will mean some chang for those work behind the scene too. on the whole, produc film for high-definit dvd will be easier in some wai becaus less compress is need. equal, it mai mean hollywood studio ask for more to be put onto the averag dvd. "when we master movi right now, our data rate ar run at about 1.2 gigabit per second," sai mr dean. "our dvd that we put out todai have to be squash down to about five or six megabit per second. "that's a huge amount of compress that ha to be appli - about 98%. so if you have anyth that allow more space, you don't have to compress so hard." studio could fit a lot more market materi, game, and featur, onto high-capac dvd. current, an entir dvd project can take up to three month, sai mr dean. although the step of down-convert will be bypass, thi will realist onli save a dai's work, sai mr dean. on of the most time consum element is build dvd navig and menu system. on the fairli complex star war disk, make sure the menu button work took 45 human hour alon. if studio want to cash in on the extra space, it could mean extra human hour, for which someon ha to pai. "if the decis on the studio side is that thei ar go to put a lot more on these disk, it could be more expens becaus of all the extra navig that is requir." and if studio do focu on deliv more "ad valu content", think mr dean, ultim it could mean that thei will want more monei for it. those cost could filter down to the price ticket on a high-definit dvd. but if the consum is not will to pai a premium price, studio will listen, think mr dean.

high-definit throw up other challeng to film maker and dvd product alik. more clariti on screen mean film maker have to make doubli sure that attent to detail is meticul. "when we did the first hd version of star war episod i, everybodi wa veri sun-tan, but that wa make-up. "in the hd version of episod i, all these make-up line show up," explain mr dean. the restor of the older star war episod reveal some interest item too.

"there ar scan of a corridor [on the death star] and fairli plainli in on of those shot, there is a file cabinet stuck behind on of the doorwai. "you never us to be abl to see it becaus thing ar just blur enough dure the pan that you just didn't see it." what high-definit revolut ultim mean is that the line between home entertain and cinema world will blur. with home theatr system turn live room into cinema, thi line blur even further. it could also mean that how we get film, and in what format, will widen. "in the futur we ar go to look toward file deliveri over ip [internet protocol - broadband], give a dvd-like experi from the set-top box to the hard drive," sai mr dean. but that is some time off for most, and for now, peopl still like to show off someth physic in their bookshelv.
