more women turn to net secur

older peopl and women ar increasingli take charg of protect home comput against malici net attack, accord to a two-year studi.

the number of women bui program to protect pc from viru, spam and spywar attack rose by 11.2% each year between 2002 and 2004. the studi, for net secur firm preventon, show that secur messag ar reach a divers of surfer. it is thought that 40% of those bui home net secur program ar retir. for the last three year, that ha gone up by an averag of 13.2%. but more retir women (53%) were bui secur softwar than retir men. the research reflect the chang stereotyp and demograph of web user, as well as grow awar of the greater risk that high-speed broadband net connect can pose to surfer.

the studi predict that 40% of all home pc net secur buyer will be women in 2005. thei could even overtak men as the main buyer by 2007, if current rate persist, accord to the research. "i think older peopl have becom more vigil about protect their pc as we tend to be more cautiou and want an insur polici in case someth doe go wrong", said on over-60 woman who took part in the research.

"you start off with young male stereotyp comput user for last 10 year," paul goosen, head of preventon told the bbc new websit. "now we ar see real peopl - both sex and veri often it is women who have more access at home." but net servic provid still need to take more respons in make sure peopl ar educ about net threat befor thei go onlin, particuarli if thei ar new to broadband, he said.

program also need to be tailor so that thei can be instal by dial-up user with a slower connect too, said mr goosen. secur softwar should be easi to us, with simpl interfac and instruct written in non-technic languag, he ad. the natur of the secur threat ar also becom more than just about e-mail virus. high-profil complaint about rogu dialler, and spywar or other program that surreptiti instal themselv on comput, have also rais awar about the need to have a combin of anti-viru, firewal and spywar-remov program too. without protect, these kind of program can be pick up just through surf the web normal.

more than 30,000 pc a dai global ar be recruit into network that spread spam and virus, a studi from secur from symantec show last year. virus written to make headlin by infect million ar also get rarer, accord to net secur expert. program ar be unleash to directli profit crimin gang, mani base in eastern europ, over those which ar design to show off technic skill or caus nuisanc. the research show that more peopl ar take these crimin net threat more serious becaus, said mr goosen, thei ar report in the press much more. "you ar see older user be educ by the media and ar see them pick up on thi threat. thei ar ask the right question," he explain. "it is more like the younger user who naiv assum that becaus thei ar us a reput servic provid, that thei ar safe to connect to the net." an unprotect comput on a broadband connect can be breach and infect with virus or spywar within minut. by the end of the year it is thought that more than 30% of uk home will have broadband net access. in juli last year, the number of uk household access the net via broadband surpass those us dial-up for the first time, accord to the offic of nation statist.
