ask jeev join web log market

ask jeev ha bought the bloglin websit to improv the wai it handl content from web journal or blog.

the bloglin site ha becom huge popular as it give user on place in which to read, search and share all the blog thei ar interest in. ask jeev said it wa not plan to chang bloglin but would us the 300 million articl it ha archiv to round out it index of the web. how much ask jeev paid for bloglin wa not reveal.

bloglin ha becom popular becaus it let user build a list of the blog thei want to follow without have to visit each journal site individu. to do thi it make us of a technolog known as realli simpl syndic (rss) that mani blog have adopt to let other site know when new entri ar made on their journal. the acquisit follow similar move by other search site. googl acquir pyra lab, maker of the blogger softwar, in 2003. in 2004 msn introduc it own blog system and yahoo ha tweak it technolog to do a better job of handl blog entri. jim lanzon, vice presid of search properti at ask jeev in the us, said it did not acquir bloglin just to get a foothold in the blog publish world. he said ask jeev wa much more interest in help peopl find inform thei were look for rather than help them write it.

"the univers of reader is vastli larger than the univers of writer," he said. mr lanzon said the acquisit would sit well with ask's my jeev servic which let peopl customis their own web experi and build up a person collect of us link. "search engin ar about discov inform for the first time and rss is the ideal wai to keep track of and monitor those site," he said. it would also help drive inform and entri from blog to the portal that ask jeev oper. there would be no instant sweep chang to bloglin, said mr lanzon. "our intent is to take our time to figur out the right busi model not to try to monetis it right awai," he said. though mr lanzon ad that ask jeev would be help organis the databas of 300m blog entri bloglin hold with it own net index technolog. "be abl to search the blogospher as on corpu of inform will be veri us in it own right," said mr lanzon. rumour about the acquisit were broken by the napster weblog which said it got the hint from ask jeev insid.
