why cell will get the hard sell

the world is cast it gaze on the cell processor for the first time, but what is so import about it, and why is it so differ?

the backer of the processor ar big name in the comput industri. ibm is on of the largest and most respect chip-maker in the world, provid cut edg technolog to larg busi. soni will be us the chip insid it playstat 3 consol, and it domin of the game market mean that it now ha a lot of power to dictat the futur of comput and game platform. the technolog insid the cell is be herald as revolutionari, from a technic standpoint. tradit comput - whether thei ar household pc or playstat 2s - us a singl processor to carri out the calcul that run the comput. the cell technolog, on the other hand, us multipl cell processor link togeth to run lot of calcul simultan.

thi give it process power an order of magnitud abov it competitor. whilst it rival ar work on similar technolog, it is soni's which is the most advanc. the speed of comput memori ha been slowli increas over the last few year, but the memori technolog that accompani the cell is a huge leap in perform.

us a technolog call xdr, creat by american firm rambu, memori can run up to eight time faster than the current standard be promot by intel. perhap more import than ani of the technolog is the cell's role in the immin "war on live room". the big trend predict for thi year is the converg of comput with home entertain devic such as dvd player and hi-fi. compani like microsoft and soni believ that there is a lot of monei to be made by put a comput underneath the tv of everi household and then offer servic such as music and video download, as well as give an individu access to all the media thei alreadi own in on place.

microsoft ha alreadi made it first tactic move into thi area with it window media center softwar, which ha been adopt by mani pc maker. soni had a stab at someth similar with the psx - a variat on the playstat - last year in japan, although thi attempt wa gener seen as a failur. both compani believ that increas the capabl of game consol, to make them as power as pc, will make the technolog access enough to persuad buyer to give them pride of place on the video rack.

soni and ibm want to make sure that the domin of the pc market enjoi by microsoft and intel is not allow to extend to thi market. by creat a radic new architectur, and us that architectur in a game consol that is sure to be a huge seller, thei hope that the cell processor can becom the domin technolog in the live room, shut out their rival. onc thei have establish themselv under the tv, there is no doubt that thei hope to us thi as a base camp to extend their might into our tradit pc and instig a regim chang on the desktop. cell is, in fact, specif design to be deploi throughout the hous. the link between the multipl processor can also be extend to reach cell processor in entir differ system.

soni hope to put cell in televis, kitchen applianc and anywher that could us ani sort of comput chip. each cell will be link to the other, creat a vast home network of comput power. resourc of the cell across the hous can be pool to provid more power, and the link can also be us to enabl devic to talk to each other, so that you can programm your microwav from your tv, for exampl. thi digit home of the futur depend on the widespread adopt of the cell processor and there ar, as with all thing, a number of reason it could fail. becaus the processor is so differ, it requir programm to learn a differ wai of write softwar, and it mai be that the changeov is simpli too difficult for them to master. you can also guarante that microsoft and intel ar not go to sit around and let cell take over home comput without a fight. microsoft is go to be push it xbox 2 as hard as possibl to make sure that it technolog, not soni's, will be under your tree next christma. intel will be furious work on new design that address the problem of it current chip to creat a rival technolog to cell, so that it doesn't lose it desktop pc domin. if cell succe in becom the live room technolog of choic, howev, it could provid the jump-start to the fulli digit home of the futur. the revolut might not be televis, but it could well be plai with a videogam control.
