playstat 3 processor unveil

the cell processor, which will drive soni's playstat 3, will run 10-time faster than current pc chip, it design have said.

soni, ibm and toshiba, who have been work on the cell processor for three year, unveil the chip on mondai. it is be design for us in graphic workstat, the new playstat consol, and ha been describ as a supercomput on a chip. the chip will run at speed of greater than 4 ghz, the firm said. by comparison, rival chip maker intel's fastest processor run at 3.8 ghz. detail of the chip were releas at the intern solid state circuit confer in san francisco. the new processor is set to ignit a fresh battl between intel and the cell consortium over which processor sit at the centr of digit product. the playstat 3 is expect in 2006, while toshiba plan to incorpor it into high-end televis next year. ibm ha said it will sell a workstat with the chip start later thi year.

cell is compris of sever comput engin, or core. a core base on ibm's power architectur control eight "synergist" process centr. in all, thei can simultan carri out 10 instruct sequenc, compar with two for current intel chip.

later thi year, intel and advanc micro devic plan to releas their own "multicor" chip, which also increas the number of instruct that can be execut at onc. the cell's specif suggest the playstat 3 will offer a signific boost in graphic capabl but analyst caution that not all the featur in a product announc will find their wai into system. "ani new technolog like thi ha two compon," said steve kleynhan, an analyst with meta group. he said: "it ha the vision of what it could be becaus you need the big vision to sell it. "then there's the realiti of how it's realli go to be us, which gener is sever level down the chain from there."

while the playstat 3 is like to be the first mass-market product to us cell, the chip's design have said the flexibl architectur mean that it would be us for a wide rang of applic, from server to mobil phone. initi devic ar unlik to be ani smaller than a game consol, howev, becaus the first version of the cell will run hot enough to need a cool fan. and while market speak describ the chip as a "supercomput" - it remain significantli slower than the slowest comput on the list of the world's top 500 supercomput. ibm said cell wa "os neutral" and would support multipl oper system simultan but design would not confirm if microsoft's window wa among those test with the chip. if cell is to challeng intel's rang of chip in the marketplac, it will need to find itself insid pc, which predominantli run us window.
