mobil audio enter new dimens

as mobil phone move closer to be a ubiquit, all-in-on media player, audio is becom ever more import. but how good can that sound be from such a small devic?

the sound of a buzz bee jump from left to right befor disappear around the back of my head. the surround sound demo is unremark when heard on a multi-speaker home cinema system but startl when emerg from a small mobil phone. british firm sonapt is on of a number of compani to have develop 3d audio technolog that emerg from stereo speaker. firm am3d and sr both offer stereo-widen technolog for mobil phone. but sonapt's manag director david monteith sai hi firm is the onli compani to offer posit 3d audio on a mobil.

"there ar quit a few basic technolog out there, make the sound seem a bit bigger, headphon a bit nicer.

"no-on ha realli tri befor to make proper 3d posit audio - where an individu channel can be move around." sonapt ha been work with japanes mobil network ntt docomo to set standard for 3d audio on mobil phone. in the last few month handset from nec, fujitsu and mitsubishi have been releas on to the japanes marker which have chip produc by yamaha and rohm with sonapt's technolog. "the technolog ha been around on pc and game consol for some time but what we ar do is make it more effici so it can go on a small consum devic like a mobil phone," said mr monteith.

the technolog work through appli the scienc of psychoacoust and grew out of medic research done by the compani's research director dr alastair sibbald. "we ar basic try to fool your ear into think sound is come from area it actual isn't. "your brain us certain bit of inform which we ar effect synthesis on a mobil phone handset." the structur of the ear work as a 3d encod for sound - help the brain understand from where sound is eman. sonapt's audio process algorithm mimic that 3d encod, give the impress that sound is come from the left, right, and behind a listen when in fact it is come from a singl sourc. mr montieth sai: "if the sound is off to on side it will get to on ear befor the other - if it is on the right it ha to bend around your head to get to your left ear.

"the shape of your ear caus differ in sound from on ear to the other. we ar synthesis those differ." sonapt hope the technolog will have a big impact in the grow market of mobil game and music download. "handheld often have limit - screen will be small by definit. "if you want to get impact from media you ar run - either a movi, a game or watch tv - if you want it to be more immers then our technolog can help." a fish game is the first titl to us the technolog, creat a 3d sound field while the gamer plai. drive game and shoot 'em up us the technolog ar in develop. the technolog can also be us for music - give song a much more expans and immers feel. sonapt offer it technolog on a chip or in softwar and is about to releas a new version which significantli improv the effici of the audio process. "it's import we onli us 10 or 15% of the processor otherwis you won't be abl to plai a game on the handset," explain mr montieth. the compani is now look to the us and european market, where it ha been work with network vodafon. "we have focus first on japan becaus it ha a veri advanc mobil phone market. "we knew japan would be the first place to have the handset that could us our technolog. "there should be handset out in the uk in the next six month."
