intel unveil laser breakthrough

intel ha said it ha found a wai to put a silicon-base laser on a chip, rais hope of much faster network.

scientist at intel have overcom a fundament problem that befor now ha prevent silicon be us to gener and amplifi laser light. the breakthrough should make it easier to interconnect data network with the chip that process the inform. the intel research said product exploit the breakthrough should appear by the end of the decad.

"we've overcom a fundament limit," said dr mario paniccia, director of intel's photon technolog lab. write in the journal natur, dr paniccia - and colleagu haisheng rong, richard jone, ansheng liu, od cohen, dani hak and alexand fang - show how thei have made a continu laser from the same materi us to make comput processor. current, sai dr paniccia, telecommun equip that amplifi the laser light that travel down fibr optic cabl is veri expens becaus of the exot materi, such as gallium arsenid, us to make it.

telecommun firm and chip maker would prefer to us silicon for these light-move element becaus it is cheap and mani of the problem of us it in high-volum manufactur have been solv. "we're try to take our silicon compet in manufactur and appli it to new area," said dr paniccia. while work ha been done to make some of the compon that can move light around, befor now silicon ha not successfulli been us to gener or amplifi the laser light puls us to send data over long distanc. thi is despit the fact that silicon is a much better amplifi of light puls than the form of the materi us in fibr optic cabl. thi improv amplif is due to the crystallin structur of the silicon us to make comput chip. dr paniccia said that the structur of silicon meant that when laser light pass through it, some collid photon rip electron off the atom within the materi. "it creat a cloud of electron sit in the silicon and that absorb all the light," he said. but the intel research have found a wai to suck awai these errant electron and turn silicon into a materi that can both gener and amplifi laser light. even better, the laser light produc in thi wai can, with the help of easi-to-make filter, be tune across a veri wide rang of frequenc. semi-conductor laser made befor now have onli produc light in a narrow frequenc rang. the result could be the close integr of the fibr optic cabl that carri data as light with the comput chip that process it. dr paniccia said the work wa the on of sever step need if silicon wa to be us to make compon that could carri and process light in the form of data puls. "it's a technic valid that it can work," he said.
