appl ipod famili expand market

appl ha expand it ipod famili with the releas of it next gener of the digit music player.

it latest challeng to the grow digit music gadget market includ an ipod mini model which can hold 6gb compar to a previou 4gb. the compani, which hope to keep it domin place in the digit music market, also said the gold colour version of the mini would be drop. a 30gb version ha also been ad to the ipod photo famili. the latest model have a longer batteri life and their price have been cut by an averag of £40. the origin ipod took an earli lead in the digit music player market thank to it larg storag capac and simpl design.

dure 2004 about 25 million portabl player were sold, 10 million of which were appl ipod. but analyst agre that the success is also down to it integr with the itun onlin store, which ha given the compani a 70% share of the legal download music market. mike mcguir, a research director at analyst gartner, told the bbc new websit that appl had done a good job in "seal off the market from competit" so far. "thei have creat a veri seamless packag which i think is the idea of the product - the design, function and the softwar ar veri impress," he said. he ad that the threat from other wa alwai present, howev. "creativ, other microsoft-partner devic, real, soni and so on, ar ratchet up the market messag and advertis," he said. creativ wa veri upbeat about how mani of it creativ zen player it had ship by the end of last year, he said. it second-gener model, like the creativ zen micro photo, is due out in the summer. it will have 5gb of memori on board.

digit music player ar now the gadget of choic among young american, accord to recent research by the pew internet and american life project. on in 10 us adult - 22 million peopl - now own a digit music player of some sort. sale of legal download song also rose more than tenfold in 2004, accord to the record industri, with 200 million track bought onlin in the us and europ in 12 month. the ifpi industri bodi said that the popular of portabl music player wa behind the growth. analyst sai that the eas of us and growth of music servic avail on the net will continu to drive the trend toward portabl music player.

peopl ar also start to us them in novel wai. some ar combin automat sync function mani of them have with other net function to automat distribut dii radio show, call podcast. but 2005 will also see more competit from mobil phone oper who ar keen to offer stream servic on much more power and sophist handset. accord to mr mcguir, research suggest that peopl like the idea of build up huge librari of music, which thei can do with high-capac storag devic, like ipod and creativ zen. mobil do not yet have thi capac though, and there ar issu about the eas of portabl of mobil music. mr mcguir said appl wa ensur it kept a foot in the mobil music door with it recent deal with motorola to produc a version of itun for motorola phone.
