mac mini herald mini revolut

the mac mini wa launch amid much fanfar by appl and great excit by appl watcher last month. but doe the latest macintosh justifi the hype? let us get a few thing dealt with at the outset - ye, the mac mini is realli, realli small, and ye, it is anoth piec of inspir appl design. there is more to be said on the comput's size and design but it is worth highlight that the mac mini is a just a comput. insid that small box there is a g4 processor, a cd/dvd player, a hard drive, some other technic bit and bob and an oper system. a dvd burner, wireless and bluetooth technolog can be bought at extra cost. and if you do not have a monitor, keyboard or mous then you will need to purchas those also.

it is not the fastest comput for the monei but for under £400 you ar get someth more interest than mere technic specif - appl softwar. the mac mini come bundl with mac os x, the oper system, as well as ilif 05, a suit of softwar which includ itun, web browser safari, iphoto, garag band and idvd. i doubt mani pc lover would serious argu that window xp come with a better suit of program than mac os x.

of cours, user of open sourc oper system linux draw up their own menu of program. for peopl who want to do interest thing with their music, photo and home movi then a mac mini is an ideal first comput or companion to a main comput. "it's a good littl machin with a reason amount of power and just perfect for the averag comput user who want to leav the tyranni of window and virus," said mark sparrow, technic and review editor at mac format magazin. he ad: "in essenc, it's a laptop in a biscuit tin, minu the screen and the keyboard. "the softwar bundl that come with the mini make your averag budget pc look a bit sick." the rel low price of the machin ha also encourag the more technic-savvi to experi with their mac. on user ha alreadi creat a "dock" to enabl him to plug in and out hi mac mini in hi car.

the small size of the machin make it a practic solut for in-car entertain - plai movi and music - as well as navig. anoth user ha mount hi mac mini to the back of hi larg plasma screen and then control the comput via a wireless keyboard and mous. when it wa first announc some pundit thought the mini wa design as a sort of stealth media centr - ie the machin would be us to serv tv programm, music, film and photo - partli due to it small, live room friendli design. but there ar obviou reason why thi is not the case - at least not in the here and now the hard drive - at 80gb for the larger model - is too small to be realist us as media centr.

while commerci person video record ar on the market with smaller than 80gb hard drive it is worth rememb that thei onli store tv content. a media centr comput ha to store music, file and photo and as such 80gb just seem too small. most pc run window media center have at least 120gb hard disk. coupl with the lack of a tv tuner card, a digit audio out and ani kind of media centr softwar bundl with the machin then the mac mini should be judg on what it is, not what it is not. but that ha not stop more enterpris user from adapt the mac mini to media centr us. so - is the mac mini just anoth comput or a revolut in comput? graham barlow, editor of mac format, understand ha a rather partisan viewpoint. "it's just a mac, but we should be veri excit - it's revolutionari in it size (smaller than pc), look (look better than pc), and the fact that it's the first mac design to realli go for the low-cost pc market." the design of the mac mini is further evid of a futur when pc ar more than just bland, bulki box. there ar a number of compani who alreadi produc miniatur pc base on mini-itx motherboard. but at the moment these pc tend to be either for the home-build enthusiast or expens pre-built option base around microsoft's media center softwar. but for the valu the mac mini offer, bring some of the best softwar packag within reach of more consum than ever befor, appl is to be congratul. let us sai then that if the mac mini is not a fulli fledg revolut - it is a mini revolut.
