can yahoo domin next decad?

yahoo ha reach the grand old ag of 10 and, in internet year, that is a long time.

for mani, yahoo remain synonym with the internet - a veteran that manag to ride the dot-com wave and the subsequ crash and maintain itself as on of the web's top brand. but for other there is anoth, newer net icon threaten to overshadow yahoo in the post dot-com world - googl.

the veteran and the upstart have plenti in common - yahoo wa the first internet firm to offer initi public share and googl wa arguabl the most watch ipo (initi public offer) of the post-dot-com era. both began life as search engin although in 2000, when yahoo chose googl to power it search facil while it concentr on it web portal busi, it wa veri much yahoo that command press attent. in recent year, the column inch have stack up in googl's favour as the search engin also diversifi with the launch of servic such as gmail, it shop channel froogl and googl new.

for jupit analyst olivi beauvillain, yahoo's initi decis to put it invest on search on hold wa an error. "yahoo wa busi build a portal and while it wa good to diversifi thei made a big mistak in outsourc search to googl," he said "thei thought googl would just be a technolog provid but it ha becom a portal in it own right and a direct competitor," he ad. he believ yahoo fail to see how crucial search would becom to internet user, someth it ha rediscov in recent year. "it is interest that in these last few year, it ha refocus on search follow the success of googl," he said. but for allen weiner, a research director at analyst firm gartner and someon who ha follow yahoo's progress sinc the earli year, the futur of search is not go to be pure about the technolog power it. "search technolog is valuabl but the next gener of search is go to be about premium content and the interfac that user have to that content," he said. he believ the rivalri between googl and yahoo is overblown and instead think the real battl is go to be between yahoo and msn. it is a battl that yahoo is current win, he believ. "microsoft ha amaz asset includ softwar capabl and a global name but it ha yet to show me it can creat a rival product to yahoo," he said.

he is convinc yahoo remain the singl most import brand on the world wide web.

"i believ yahoo is the semin brand on the web. if you ar look for a text book definit of web portal then yahoo is it," he said. it ha achiev thi domin, mr weiner believ, by a canni combin of acquisit such as that of inktomi and overtur, and by avoid direct involv in either content creation or internet access. that is not to sai that yahoo hasn't had it dark dai. when the dot-com bubbl burst, it lost on-third of it revenu in a singl year, bore a success of loss and saw it market valu fall from a peak of $120bn to $4.6bn at on point. crucial to it surviv wa the decis to replac chief execut tim koogl with terri semel in mai 2001, think mr weiner. hi busi savvi, coupl with the technic geniu of founder jerri yang ha prove a win combin, he sai.

so as the internet giant emerg from it first decad as a survivor, how will it fare as it enter it teenag year? "the game is their to lose and msn is the onli on that stand in the wai of yahoo's domin," predict mr weiner. nick hazel, yahoo's head of consum servic in the uk, think the fact that yahoo ha grown up with the first wave of the internet gener will stand it in good stead. search will be a kei focu as will make yahoo messeng avail on mobil, forg new broadband partnership such as that with bt in the uk and continu to provid a rang of servic beyond the desktop, he sai. mr weiner think yahoo's vision of becom the ultim gatewai to the web will move increas toward movi and televis as more and more peopl get broadband access. "it will spread it portal wing to expand into rich media," he predict.
