look and music to drive mobil

mobil phone ar still enjoi a boom time in sale, accord to research from technolog analyst gartner.

more than 674 million mobil were sold last year global, said the report, the highest total sold to date. the figur wa 30% more than in 2003 and surpass even the most optimist predict, gartner said. good design and the look of a mobil, as well as new servic such as music download, could go some wai to push up sale in 2005, said analyst. although peopl were still look for better replac phone, there wa evid, accord to gartner, that some market were see a slow-down in replac sale.

"all the market grew apart from japan which show that replac sale ar continu in western europ," mobil analyst carolina milanesi told the bbc new websit. "japan is where north america and western european market can be in a coupl of year' time. "thei alreadi have tv, music, rington, camera, and all that we can think of on mobil, so peopl have stop bui replac phone."

but there could be a slight slowdown in sale in european and us market too, accord to gartner, as peopl wait to see what come next in mobil technolog. thi mean mobil compani have to think carefulli about what thei ar offer in new model so that peopl see a compel reason to upgrad, said gartner. third gener mobil (3g) with the abil to handl larg amount of data transfer, like video, could drive peopl into upgrad their phone, but ms milanesi said it wa difficult to sai how quickli that would happen. "at the end of the dai, peopl have camera and colour screen on mobil and for the major of peopl out there who don't realli care about technolog the speed of data to a phone is not critic." nor would the rush to produc two or three megapixel camera phone be a reason for mobil owner to upgrad on it own. the major of camera phone model ar not at the stage where thei can compet with digit camera which also have flash and zoom.

more like to drive sale in 2005 would be the attent to design and aesthet, as well as music servic. the motorola razr v3 phone wa typic of the attent to design that would be more commonplac in 2005, she ad. thi wa not a "women's thing", she said, but a desir from men and women to have a gadget that is a form of self-express too. it wa not just about how the phone function, but about what it said about it owner. "western europ ha alwai been a market which is quit attent to design," said ms milanesi.

"peopl ar after someth that is nice-look, and togeth with that, there is the entertain side. "thi year music will have a part to plai in thi." the market for full-track music download wa worth just $20 million (£10.5 million) in 2004, but is set to be worth $1.8 billion (£94 million) by 2009, accord to junip research. soni ericsson just releas it walkman brand mobil phone, the w800, which combin a digit music player with up to 30 hour' batteri life, and a two megapixel camera. in juli last year, motorola and appl announc a version of itun onlin music download servic would be releas which would be compat with motorola mobil phone. appl said the new itun music player would becom motorola's standard music applic for it music phone. but the challeng will be balanc storag capac with batteri life if mobil music hope to compet with digit music player like the ipod. ms milanesi said more model would like be releas in the come year with hard drive. but thei would be more like to compet with the smaller capac music player that have around four gigabyt storag capac, which would not put too much strain on batteri life.
