'no re-draft' for eu patent law

a propos european law on softwar patent will not be re-draft by the european commiss (ec) despit request by mep.

the law is prove controversi and ha been in limbo for a year. some major tech firm sai it is need to protect invent, while other fear it will hurt smaller tech firm. the ec sai the council of minist will adopt a draft version that wa agre upon last mai but said it would review "all aspect of the direct". the direct is intend to offer patent protect to invent that us softwar to achiev their effect, in other word, "comput implement invent".

in a letter, ec presid jo&#233; manuel barroso told the presid of the european parliament, josep borrel, that the commiss "did not intend to refer a new propos to the parliament and the council (of minist)" as it had support the agreement reach by minist in mai 2004.

if the european council agre on the draft direct it will then return for a second read at the european parliament. but that will not guarante that the direct will becom law - instead it will probabl mean further delai and controversi over the direct. most eu legisl now need the approv of both parliament and the council of minist befor it becom law. french green mep alain lipietz warn two week ago that if the commiss ignor the parliament's request it would be an "insult" to the assembl. he said that the parliament would then reject the council's version of the legisl as part of the final or concili stage of the decis procedur. in the us, the patent of comput program and internet busi method is permit.

thi mean that the us-base amazon.com hold a patent for it "on-click shop" servic, for exampl. critic ar concern that the direct could lead to a similar model happen in europ. thi, thei fear, could hurt small softwar develop becaus thei do not have the legal and financi might of larger compani if thei had to fight patent legal action in court. support sai current law ar ineffici and it would serv to even up a plai field without bring eu law in line with the us.
