warn on woeful wi-fi secur

compani ar get wors at keep their wireless data network secur.

a survei of wi-fi network in london, frankfurt, new york and san francisco by rsa secur found more than a third had basic secur featur turn off. by contrast last year's survei found that 15% of firm had fail to take basic step to improv secur. rsa warn that wi-fi's grow popular made it much more like that insecur network would be found and exploit.

wireless or wi-fi network have becom huge popular over the last few year in offic becaus thei ar easi to set up and make go onlin much more conveni. thi popular show no sign of slow reveal the annual rsa secur and netsur survei which found an annual 66% growth rate in the number of wireless net be instal in london and frankfurt. although most firm do take step to turn on the secur function built in to the wi-fi standard and protect themselv from attack, the survei found that a signific proport were take unnecessari risk. on averag 33% of the wireless network found by rsa and netsur research in london, frankfurt, new york and san francisco had not us basic secur system. mani firm were simpli turn on their wireless net access point and us default set that anyon familiar with wi-fi could easili find out. rsa said that 26% of wi-fi network found london us default set compar to 30% in frankfurt, 31% in new york and 28% in san francisco. mani user of wi-fi net did not even turn on the encrypt that scrambl data traffic between user and the access point help them go onlin. thi is despit a seri of stori warn firm about the danger of "drive-by hack" in which comput crimin walk or drive around citi centr us easi to us tool to spot wi-fi net. "these figur ar anoth stark warn to unsecur busi to get their act togeth," said phil cracknel, chief technolog offic at netsur. as more public wi-fi hotspot appear and peopl becom more familiar with us them, it wa get more like that insecur would be found, warn mr cracknel. "accident or intent connect to a corpor network can bring with it a seri of secur issu includ loss of confidenti data and instal of malici code," he said.
