cebit open to mobil music tune

cebit, the world's largest hi-tech fair, ha open it door in hanov for a look at the latest technolog for home and busi.

there ar more than 6,000 exhibitor regist and about 500,000 visitor ar expect to pass through the door. third gener mobil, the digit home and broadband ar kei theme at the show. camera phone will get better resolut as vendor set out to prove that bigger is definit better. samsung is set to steal some initi limelight with the launch of a 7-megapixel phone on the open dai.

the sch-v770 ha some of the featur of high-end digit singl len reflex camera such as manual focu and the abil to attach a telephoto or wide-angl len. camera phone ar like to prove an interest battl ground at the show, said ben wood, princip analyst at research firm gartner. "it is firmli establish that camera ar an integr part of phone and now the technolog arm race is on in term of megapixel. there will be a certain amount of 'look how big mine is'," he said. there will also be increas focu on music-enabl mobil. "at 3gsm in cann everyon went music mad and music is go to be a big theme for all the vendor at cebit," said mr wood. soni ericsson will us the fair to show off the w800 - it recent unveil walkman brand phone - and there is specul that motorola mai unveil it rokr handset, wide tip as the first to carri appl's itun music softwar. appl and motorola announc thei were get togeth at the end of last year as a result of a long-stand friendship between motorola's chief execut ed zander and steve job.

some analyst think motorola mai save the launch for ctia, a wireless show in america the follow week, which could be a tell sign about how oper ar come to view the german tech fair.

"on of the interest thing is that cebit is clearli a show in declin," said mr wood. "a lot of the big player, such as nokia, ar pull back sai it is hard to justifi a big presenc at all of the show. it could be the last big year for cebit," he said. other theme includ tv-enabl mobil which ar bound to creat a buzz in the hall as vodafon unveil a prototyp handset that can show live digit televis. there ha been a glut of recent headlin about mobil tv - french oper ar team up, o2 is triall a system in oxford, uk, and nokia begin triall a system in finland with the finnish broadcast compani, yle tv and commerci tv channel. cebit could becom the battleground for the two compet method for get tv on to mobil, and is also like to provid a stage for a technolog slate to compet with 3g. hsdpa (high speed downlink packet access) ha been describ as "3g on steroid" and could offer consum much faster download time. for instanc, a song which current take on and a half minut to download to a phone could be done in 10 second. korean giant lg electron and samsung will show off hsdpa handset at the show and the technolog is set to be roll out in the us, europ and korea next year. broadband will continu to be a kei theme at the show with internet telephoni prove thi year's killer applic.

germani's largest onlin servic provid, t-onlin, is tip to reveal softwar for low-cost net telephoni which would see it compet with it parent compani deutsch telekom. cebit is us by mani to unveil cut edg product and in the mobil sphere thi is like to mean a lot of bright, colour handset as fashion continu to compet with technolog when it come to the devic everyon ha in their pocket. rainbow-colour phone, influenc by handset from japan, ar just on exampl of how asian compani will stamp their mark on thi year's show, at which thei will have their biggest ever presenc. cebit organis have creat a digit home in hall 25 of the 27 hangar-like build that will hous the show. "the digit home will be a hype theme at the show. the hous will be total wire and full of thing that can be us for home entertain," said cebit organis gabriel dorri.
