game maker get xbox 2 sneak peek

microsoft ha given game maker a glimps of the new xbox 2 consol.

some detail of the xbox's perform and what game will be like with the devic were given at the annual game develop confer in the us. xbox frontman j. allard said the consol look set to be capabl of on trillion calcul per second. also all titl for the new xbox will have the same interfac to make it easi to plai onlin and bui extra for charact or other add-on for game.

microsoft is save the offici unveil of the xbox 2, codenam xenon, for the e3 show in mai and the devic could be on shop shelv by novemb. howev, dure hi keynot speech at gdc mr allard, who head develop of game-make tool for the consol, gave a glimps into how some of it core softwar will work. he said game wa enter a "high-definit" era that demand detail and convinc graphic that could adequ compet with the hdtv peopl were start to watch as well as the hd dvd that will soon start to appear.

industri watcher took thi to mean that the xbox 2 will push for hdtv qualiti graphic as standard as well as multi-channel audio to give gamer an authent experi. mr allard said microsoft had to work hard to ensur that it wa easi for game maker to produc titl for the xbox 2 and for player to get plai. to thi end microsoft wa build in to xbox hardwar system to support headset chat, buddi list control and custom soundtrack so develop were free to concentr on the game. the xbox would also support well-known industri specif, such as directx, to make it simpl for game studio to make titl for the consol. for gamer thi emphasi on eas of us would mean everi xbox titl us the same interfac to set up onlin plai and get at music store on the hardwar. thi interfac will hold detail of a player's statist and skill level on a "gamer card" as well as give access to a store where peopl can spend small amount of cash to bui extra for their avatar or add-on, such as new map or vehicl, for game thei possess. thi abil to personalis game and in-game charact would be kei in the futur, said mr allard. onli with such consist would the xbox be abl to support the 10-20 million subscrib that it wa aim for, said mr allard. dure hi speech mr allard took sever swipe at the playstat and said processor for consol had to be made with develop, not just engin, in mind. "our approach is bruce lee, not brute forc," he said.
