broadband set to revolutionis tv

bt is start it push into televis with plan to offer tv over broadband.

as a telecom compani, bt is move to a content distribut strategi, andrew burk, chief of bt's new entertain unit told the iptv world forum. "we want to be an entertain facilit," he said on the open dai of the london confer. the bbc is also triall a servic to plai programm over the net and ha not rule out offer it to non-licenc fee payer oversea. the corpor's interact media player (imp) is it first forai into broadband tv - known as iptv (internet protocol tv).

"we see sever opportun for deliv the type of content that normal broadcast find it difficult to get to viewer," said bt's andrew burk.

with more peopl on broadband, and connect speed increas, telco around the world ar look for new wai to make monei from it. increas competit between net servic provid, encourag by ofcom, ha erod bt's posit in the market. it is look for a good return on it invest in the technolog which ha made broadband over adsl a realiti. it also see deliv tv over broadband as a wai of get high-definit (hd) content to peopl sooner than thei will be abl to get it through convent, regular broadcast. the bbc's imp ha just finish success technic trial and is set for much larger consum trial later in 2005. befor it offici launch, the bbc must show the govern how it offer valu for monei. deliv programm over broadband offer clear public valu, sai the bbc, becaus it give peopl more control, and more choic.

iptv is a similar idea to voip servic, like skype. both us broadband net connect to carri inform, like video and voic, in packet of data instead of convent mean. sinc it us internet technolog, iptv could mean more choic of programm, more, more interact, tailor program, and more localis content outsid of convent satellit, digit cabl, and terrestri broadcast.

it is all part of the larger chang tv technolog landscap and, like person digit video record (pvr), give peopl much more control over tv. broadcast see iptv and pvr as both as a threat and an opportun. the bbc recognis that tv over broadband is a realiti and aim to innov with it, said rahul chakkara, control of bbci's 24/7 interact tv servic. the imp is base on peer-to-peer technolog, and let peopl download programm the bbc own the right to for up to seven dai after broadcast. "iptv enabl us to take back that programm to our audienc at differ time," said mr chakkara.

"so we can tell our audienc that that programm thei paid for [via the licenc fee], thei can access it ani time thei want." it help, said mr burk, that peopl ar more au fait with term like "digit", "interact", now that digit tv reach more than 56% of uk home. accord to benoit joli from broadband telecom firm thale, 30% of europ cannot get satellit tv or digit tv. thei could get iptv though. analyst sai that iptv will account for 10% of the digit tv market in europ alon by the end of the decad. what need to happen now, agre analyst, is for connect speed to be bump up to handl the servic; 20mbp connect would be ideal. bt doe not see itself as a broadcast of iptv servic, rather as an "enabl", said mr burk. it strategi is a "hybrid" approach, he explain, where over-the-air convent broadcast ar supplement with content over broadband.

initi appeal to nich market, like sport fan, it will widen out. but iptv could be us for home-monitor, "pet cam", localis new servic, and local author tv, too sai bt. it even suggest that it could target those household in the uk that do not own a comput, 40% of the countri.

broadband to them would not be about data and the net - that could come later for them - but about cheap phone call and more choic of tv programm. home choic alreadi offer 10,000 hour of show and channel, deliv over broadband to home in london. with a broadband net subscript, you can also get your tv and phone servic. through content deal and partnership, it offer satellit as well as terrestri channel, and bespok channel base on what viewer pick and choos from it catalogu. it aim to expand nation, but is see a lot of success with what it offer it 15,000 subscrib now, and aim to doubl uptak as well as reach by the summer. although still at a veri earli stage, iptv is anoth applic for broadband that underlin it grow promin as a backbon network - anoth util like electr.
