chip maker back net phone call

rich templeton, the head of giant chip maker texa instrument, ha given hi back to the grow sector of voic over internet telephoni (voip)

voip allow pc user, and in some case those with just a broadband connect, to make telephon call via the net. mr templeton said voip would be the next major applic to drive broadband connect into home. internet servic provid wanadoo ha announc it is launch it own broadband telephoni servic in the uk.

subscrib to wanadoo's broadband servic will be abl to us the servic to make free even and weekend call to ani uk landlin, and free call at ani time to other wanadoo user. the servic will cost an extra £4 a month and will come with a free livebox, the broadband hub which wanadoo plan will be us in futur to provid video-on-demand and home secur servic. the secondari phone line will mean custom can have an extra home phone number and will also provid wireless internet access around the home. eventu the servic will replac exist landlin servic as wanadoo goe head to head with bt. "voic-over broadband is a kei trend across europ and is set to have a dramat impact on the telecommun industri, " eric abensur, wanadoo's chief execut told the bbc new websit. mr templeton said he agre. "voic-over-packet is go to be the second killer applic after broadband internet access," he said. the world's largest maker of chip for mobil phone believ the technolog will grow rapidli from the rel small user base it ha current.

almost 83 million peopl have download the softwar that power the skype voip servic, accord to the net telephoni firm's websit. skype let peopl make free call to other skype user and also make low-cost call to ordinari phone number. us firm vonag also offer a voip servic, but on which let peopl plug an ordinari phone into a broadband router to make call. bill simmelink, gener manag of ti's voip busi, said the technolog would onli take off when peopl were make net call with the eas of make a normal call. "it's not about the pipe, if you will, or the silicon per se, it's about the applic," he said.

"we want to commun freeli, effortlessli and econom wherev we ar." in a sign that voip is seep into the mainstream, giant isp aol announc on tuesdai that it had plan to launch a net-base phone servic for some of it member within the month. custom will continu to us their tradit phone, but thei will plug them into adapt connect to their broadband sourc rather than the jack provid by the telephon compani. call ar receiv and place just like on the old telephon network. "we can help mass-market adopt of voip," said aol chief execut jonathan miller. "we can utilis our nation footprint. we can help the entir industri becom well known."
