nintendo ds make it euro debut

nintendo's ds handheld game consol ha offici gone on sale in europ.

mani store around the uk open at midnight to let keen gamer get their hand on the devic. the two-screen clamshel gadget cost £99 (149 euro) and 15 game ar avail for it at launch, some featur well-known charact such as super mario and rayman. the ds spearhead nintendo's attempt to continu it domin of the handheld game market.

sinc go on sale in japan and the us at the end of 2004, nintendo ha sold almost 4m ds consol.

part of thi popular mai be due to the fact that the ds can run ani of the catalogu of 700 game produc for nintendo's gameboi advanc handheld. game for the ds ar expect to cost between £19 and £29. about 130 game for the ds ar in develop.

as well as have two screen, on of which is control by touch, the ds also let player take on up to 16 other peopl via wireless. a "download plai" option mean ds owner can take each other on even if onli on of them own a copi of a particular game. other ds owner can also be sent text messag and draw. nintendo is also plan to releas a media adapt for the handheld so it can plai music and video. five virgin megastor and 150 game shop were expect to open earli on fridai morn to let peopl bui a ds. "we know that custom want it as soon as it's releas - and that mean the minut, not the dai," said robert quinn, game's uk sale director.

but nintendo will onli have sole control of europ's handheld game market for a few week becaus soon soni is expect to releas it psp consol. although nintendo is aim for younger player and the psp is more for older gamer, it is like that the two firm will be compet for mani of the same custom. soni's psp repres a real threat to nintendo becaus of the huge number of playstat owner around the world and the greater flexibl of the sleek black gadget. the psp us small disc for game, can plai music and movi without the need for add-on and also support short-rang wireless plai. when it goe on sale the psp is like to cost between £130 and £200.
