anti-tremor mous stop pc shake

a special adaptor that help peopl with hand tremor control a comput mous more easili ha been develop.

the devic us similar "steadi cam" technolog found in camcord to filter out shake hand movement. peopl with hand tremor find it hard to us convent mice for simpl comput task becaus of the errat movement of the cursor on the screen. about three million briton have some sort of hand tremor condit, said the uk nation tremor foundat. "us a comput mous is well known for be extrem hard for peopl with tremor so we're delight to hear that a technolog ha been develop to address thi problem," said karen walsh, from the uk nation tremor foundat. most commonli associ with tremor is parkinson's diseas, but thei can also be caus by other condit like essenti tremor (et). tremor more often affect older peopl, but can hit all ag. et, for exampl, is genet and can afflict peopl throughout their live.

the assist mous adapt (ama) is the brainchild of ibm research jim levin who develop the prototyp after see hi uncl, who ha parkinson's diseas, struggl with mous control. "i knew that there must be wai to improv the situat for him and the million of other tremor suffer around the world, includ the elderli.

"the number of elderli comput user will increas as the popul ag, and at the same time, the need for comput access grow," he said. comput user plug the devic into a pc, and it can be adjust depend on how sever the tremor is. it is also abl to recognis multipl click on a mous button caus by shaki digit. ibm said it would partner up with a small uk-base electron firm, montros secam, to produc the devic which will cost about £70. jame cosgrav, on of the compani's director, said it would make a big differ to those with tremor. "i'm a pilot and my tremor condit ha not limit my abil to fly a plane," he said. "but us a pc ha proven almost imposs simpli becaus everyth revolv around us the mous to accur manipul the tini cursor on the screen." he said a prototyp of the gadget had transform hi life.

the devic could help open up comput to million more peopl who have found shake to be a barrier. last year, the offic for nation statist report that for the first time, more than half of all household in britain had a home comput. with price get cheaper to get onlin too, comput ownership is increas. but although 62% of british peopl have tri the internet, onli 15% of briton ag 65 or over have been onlin. more than six million uk household now have a broadband net. by the middl of 2005, it is estim that 50% of all uk net user will be on broadband. there ar still million us the net through dial-up connect too.
