the pirat with no profit motiv

two men who were part of a huge network of internet softwar pirat, known as drink or die, have been convict at the old bailei. bbc new investig how the network work and what motiv those involv.

thei call themselv drink or die (dod). thei were a network of comput buff who deriv pleasur from crack code protect copyright softwar such as window 95. thei would then share it with each other. there is no suggest ani of them profit financi. but the author in both britain and the unit state consid it softwar piraci and took a dim view of network such as dod, on of a number of so-call warez organis oper on the internet. in octob 2000 the us custom servic began an investig into dod and other network, such as razor 1911, risciso, myth and popz.

fourteen month later us custom co-ordin a seri of raid across the globe as part of oper buccan. seventi search warrant were execut in the us, britain, australia, norwai, sweden and finland. at least 60 peopl were arrest worldwid - 45 of them in the us. among the leader of the network were american john sanku - known by hi internet nicknam eriflleh (hellfir spelt backward) - richard berri, kent kartadinata and christoph tresco, who us a server base at the prestigi massachusett institut of technolog (mit).

the longest jail sentenc - 46 month - wa hand down to sanku, a 28-year-old from philadelphia. us attornei paul mcnulti said at the time: "john sanku and hi techno-gang oper in the faceless world of the internet and thought thei would never be caught. "thei were wrong. these sentenc, and those to follow, should send a messag to other entertain similar belief of invinc." but on man still in legal limbo is british-born australian hew raymond griffith, who is still fight against extradit to the us.

us custom claim mr griffith wa on of dod's leader but hi lawyer, antoni townsden, told the bbc new websit it wa a laughabl suggest and ad: "he wa live on welfar and had such an old comput that he couldn't even download softwar. "the alleg that he wa the group's co-leader is illusori. he had the least technic skill of anyon, he couldn't crack ani code and he ha onli been call a leader becaus he wa a loudmouth who wrote a lot on their messageboard." mr townsden said if he had commit ani crime he should be prosecut in australia, not the us. he claim the australian govern's decis to accept the extradit request wa typic of their current "acquiesc" attitud to the us.

mr griffith is expect to hear thi week the outcom of hi appeal against the decis to extradit him. those involv would give themselv internet alias which would act in the same wai as tag us by graffiti artist. thei could then brag about their code-crack abil without give awai their real ident. alex bell, whose trial at the old bailei end on fridai, wa known as mr 2940 - after a comput devic - while hi co-defend steven dowd's nicknam, curious, wa tim.

a spokesman for us immigr, custom and enforc, dean boyd, said dod did not appear to be motiv by monei. their motiv wa the kudo which surround be abl to crack sophist softwar. he told the bbc new websit: "primarili thei were just interest in how fast thei could crack the code. it wa all about underground notorieti." but mr boyd point out that onc the softwar had been distribut on the internet it fell into the hand of organis crimin who were abl to mass produc pirat softwar at zero cost.

"it cost us industri a lot of monei, billion of dollar," he said. mr boyd said: "it wa truli global in scope. we raid a number of univers, includ duke (in north carolina) and mit, and found that sever of the peopl involv were emploi by major comput corpor. "thei would go home from work in the even and get involv in thi warez cultur." warez group, which began to surfac in the earli 1990s, oper accord to a strict code of honour.

for exampl if on group crack the softwar first it rival would respect that achiev and not seek to claim it themselv. mr boyd said the destruct of dod wa a great coup but he ad: "i'm not go to sit here and sai we have sort the problem. there ar still hacker and peopl who do thi for fun. "internet piraci of comput softwar remain a gigant problem." a spokesman for the busi softwar allianc said: "dod member claim thei did not profit at all. but thei did profit by get access to veri expens server." he said dod and other warez group were foster a "cultur of piraci" on the internet. he said 29% of comput softwar in britain wa believ to have been pirat and thi cost £1bn in revenu for softwar compani, their supplier and distributor. "it mai seem like a victimless crime but it touch more peopl than you might care to believ."
