appl make blog reveal sourc

appl ha won it legal fight to make three blogger reveal who told them about unreleas product.

the bid to unmask the employe leak inform wa launch in decemb 2004 follow onlin articl about appl's asteroid product. now appl ha won the right to see e-mail record from the three blogger to root out the culprit. a lawyer for the three blogger said the rule set a danger preced that could harm all new report.

appl's lawsuit accus anonym peopl of steal trade secret about the asteroid music product and leak them to the powerpag, appl insid and think secret websit. all three ar appl fan site that obsess watch the icon firm for inform about futur product. appl is notori secret about upcom product which give ani snippet of inform about what it is work on all the more valu. the lawsuit to reveal the name of the leaker wa file against the power page and appl insid site.

the separ legal fight with think secret ha yet to be resolv. in the rule hand down thi week by santa clara counti superior court judg jame kleinberg, appl can now get it hand on e-mail record from the blogger' net provid. in make hi rule, judg kleinberg said that law cover the divulg of trade secret outweigh consider of public interest. california ha so-call "shield" law which protect journalist from prosecut if what thei ar write about can be shown to be in the public interest. the judg wrote: "...it is not surpris that hundr of thousand of 'hit' on a websit about appl have and will happen. but an interest public is not the same as the public interest". judg kleinberg said the question of whether the blogger were journalist or not did not appli becaus law govern the right to keep trade secret confidenti cover journalist, too. the electron frontier foundat, which is act as legal counsel for power page and appl insid, said the rule had potenti wide implic. "anyon who report on compani or the trade press should be concern about thi rule," said eff lawyer kurt opsahl. mr opsahl said the eff wa plan to appeal against the rule becaus the blogger were journalist and us feder law stop net firm hand over copi of e-mail messag if the owner of that account doe not give their consent.
