hitachi unveil 'fastest robot'

japanes electron firm hitachi ha unveil it first humanoid robot, call emiew, to challeng honda's asimo and soni's qrio robot.

hitachi said the 1.3m (4.2ft) emiew wa the world's quickest-move robot yet. two wheel-base emiew, pal and chum, introduc themselv to report at a press confer in japan. the robot will be guest at the world expo later thi month. soni and honda have both built sophist robot to show off develop in electron. explain why hitachi's emiew us wheel instead of feet, toshihiko horiuchi, from hitachi's mechan engin research laboratori, said: "we aim to creat a robot that could live and co-exist with peopl." "we want to make the robot us for peopl ... if the robot move slower than peopl, user would be frustrat." emiew - excel mobil and interact exist as workmat - can move at 3.7m/h. it "wheel feet" resembl the bottom half of a segwai scooter. with sensor on the head, waist, and near the wheel, pal and chum demonstr how thei could react to command. "i want to be abl to walk about in place like shinjuku and shibuya [shop district] in the futur without bump into peopl and car," pal told report. hitachi said pal and chum, which have a vocabulari of about 100 word, could be "train" for practic offic and factori us in as littl as five to six year.

robot research have long been challeng by develop robot that walk in the gait of a human. at the recent aaa (american associ for the advanc of scienc) annual meet in washington dc, research show off biped design. the three design, each built by a differ research group, us the same principl to achiev a human-like gait.

soni and honda have both us humanoid robot, which ar not commerci avail, as a wai of show off comput power and engin expertis. honda's asimo wa "born" five year ago. sinc then, honda and soni's qrio have tri to trump each other with what the robot can do at variou technolog event. asimo, ha visit the uk, germani, the czech republ, franc and ireland as part of a world tour. soni's qrio ha been sing, jog and danc in format around the world too and wa, until last year, the fastest robot on two leg. but it record wa beaten by asimo. it is capabl of 3km/h, which it maker claim is almost four time as fast as qrio. last year, car maker toyota also step into the ring and unveil it trumpet-plai humanoid robot. by 2007, it is predict that there will be almost 2.5 million "entertain and leisur" robot in home, compar to about 137,000 current, accord to the unit nation (un). by the end of that year, 4.1 million robot will be do job in home, said the report by the un econom commiss for europ and the intern feder of robot. hitachi is on of the compani with home clean robot machin on the market.
