have hacker recruit your pc?

more than on million comput on the net have been hijack to attack websit and pump out spam and virus.

the huge number wa reveal by secur research who have spent month track more than 100 network of remot-control machin. the largest network of so-call zombi network spi on by the team wa made up of 50,000 hijack home comput. data wa gather us machin that look innoc but which log everyth hacker did to them.

the detail look at zombi or 'bot net of hijack comput wa done by the honeynet project - a group of secur research that gather inform us network of comput that act as "honei pot" to attract hacker and gather inform about how thei work. while 'bot net have been known about for some time, estim of how widespread thei ar from secur firm have vari wide.

to gather it inform the german arm of the honeynet project creat softwar tool to log what happen to the machin thei put on the web. get the machin hijack wa worryingli easi. the longest time a honeynet machin surviv without be found by an automat attack tool wa onli a few minut. the shortest compromis time wa onli a few second. the research found that, onc compromis machin tend to report in to chat channel on irc server and wait instruct from the malici hacker behind the tool us to recruit the machin. mani well-known vulner in the window oper system were exploit by 'bot net control to find and take over target machin. especi covet were home pc sit on broadband connect that ar never turn off.

the month of surveil reveal that the differ 'bot net - which involv a few hundr to ten of thousand of machin - ar us for a varieti of purpos. mani ar us as relai for spam, to rout unwant advert to pc user or as launch platform for virus. but the research team found that mani ar put to veri differ us. dure the monitor period, the team saw 'bot net us to launch 226 distribut denial-of-servic attack on 99 separ target. these attack bombard websit with data in an attempt to overwhelm the target. us a 'bot net of machin spread around differ network and nation make such attack hard to defend against. on ddo attack wa us by on firm to knock it competitor offlin. other 'bot net were us to abus the googl adsens program that reward websit for displai advert from the search engin. some network were us to abus or manipul onlin poll and game. crimin also seem to be start to us 'bot net for mass ident theft, to host websit that look like those of bank so confidenti inform can be gather and to peep into onlin traffic to steal sensit data. "leverag the power of sever thousand bot, it is viabl to take down almost ani websit or network instantli," said the research. "even in unskil hand, it should be obviou that 'bot net ar a load and power weapon."
