what price for 'trust pc secur'?

you can now bui "trust comput", but can we realli trust the pc vendor, ask technolog analyst bill thompson.

if you have recent bought an ibm thinkvantag comput, a dell optiplex, or on of a whole rang of laptop from toshiba, hp/compaq or samsung then you mai have got more for your monei than you realis. insid your shini new pc is an extra chip call the trust platform modul (tpm) that can be us for a rang of hardwar-base secur featur. eventu the tpm will be built into the main processor itself, and if the trust comput group ha it wai then you will find on in everi piec of hardwar you own, from mobil phone to tv set top box to children's toi. but for the moment it is a separ piec of hardwar, provid enhanc secur featur to program that know how to us them. and as part of a well-design network system, it can provid a lot more secur than we enjoi todai. a big advantag of the tpm is that it is hardwar-base.

at the moment most of us reli on softwar to keep our inform safe and secur. it might be password-protect user account, data encrypt program or a firewal, but it all reli on program code run on an inher insecur processor.

hardwar secur is less common, even if it is a lot safer. thi is partli becaus it is more expens to give someon a smartcard than a password, but also becaus it more work for user, system administr and manag. as a result we settl for second best. so when it come to comput secur, trust system could be a major step forward. after all, if you have a laptop that will onli run program that have been digit sign then it will be a lot harder for viru writer to get their malici code to run. and if all your file ar lock automat then even if you get your comput stolen your person data will be safeguard. at the moment support for trust hardwar is not built into major oper system. instead you have to us special softwar, like hp's protecttool or wave system' embassi. thi provid file encrypt, password manag and ident protect, usual for busi user who connect to compani network. full support for the trust comput specif will not be avail from microsoft until the next releas of window, "longhorn". thi will includ what microsoft, in a typic act of obscurant, call the "next gener secur comput base", and it will give user-level program access to the trust comput hardwar. when that happen we can expect to see a lot of public around the new capabl, and no doubt the window secur centr will encourag user to turn on their trust comput capabl just as thei turn on their firewal. howev there is a downsid to the increas secur from virus, spywar and data theft that thi will provid.

becaus the trust comput base is also us to make digit right manag (drm) system more secur, thi will give content provid a lot more control over what we can do with music, movi and book that we have bought from them. we have seen recent how allow digit right manag servic into our live can lead to unwelcom consequ. user of appl's itun us to be abl to stream the music thei had brought to up to five other itun user, a great wai of let your mate discov your music collect.

but the latest version of itun limit thi capabl, just as an earlier upgrad reduc the number of time you could burn a select playlist of purchas song to a cd. anoth took awai the abil to plai song download from real's harmoni servic on your ipod. appl can do thi becaus thei wrote the softwar and thei control the right manag. onc it is embed in trust hardwar it will be even harder for dedic programm to find their wai around these restrict and give us back the fair us right that should be guarante under copyright law. similarli, user of tivo digit video record have found that thei cannot record some show, and other programm that thei have record ar automat delet after a dai. thi happen becaus of chang that tivo have made to their softwar, and the user cannot control it. on wonder whether hardwar-base drm will work for those who believ that lock-down digit content is a bad idea, and that the flexibl of copyright law is someth that should be embrac and not taken awai. it will not work becaus of the fundament flaw at the heart of the system: in order for the purchas to view the content it ha to be unlock. onc it is unlock then someon, somewher, will figur out a wai to make a copi of the unlock version. and onc an unlock version leak onto the network it will be uncontrol. the effort go into drm would be much better spent build effici distribut servic, find busi model that ar base on trust your custom, and offer high qualiti download at fair price. what we want is not so much a trust comput platform as a trust custom platform. the record compani and the film industri need to recognis that most of us, most of the time, will pai a reason amount for good qualiti materi. thei will benefit more by build a market in which i can share song with my friend, record show i want to watch later, and burn cd for my kid; a market which respect the spirit of copyright law and doe not seek to replac it by restrict contract or end user agreement. we need to ensur that trust comput remain under the control of the user and is not us to take awai the freedom we enjoi todai.

bill thompson is a regular comment on the bbc world servic programm go digit.
