gizmondo gadget hit the shelv

the gizmondo combin media player, phone and game gadget goe on sale on saturdai.

price at £229, the handheld devic is debut in the uk and goe on sale in the us and mainland europ in the next few week. a catalogu of about 20 game is be prepar for the gadget includ the great escap and conflict vietnam. the british-back gadget face stiff competit from handheld game devic made by nintendo and soni.

the gizmondo devic pack a lot of function insid it black cover and is aim at gamer and those that want more from their game-plai gadget.

it can be us to plai game, music track and movi. it can take and store digit photo and be us like a mobil phone to send text, multimedia and e-mail messag. the phone servic to enabl peopl to send messag is be provid by pre-pai vodafon account bundl in with the devic. it also work with gp (global posit system) so can also be us as a navig aid or to support a varieti of locat-base servic. the gpr and bluetooth wireless data system onboard mean that it can be us for multi-player game. the gadget will be avail from the gizmondo store on london's regent street and from sever other retail partner. although the devic roll togeth an impress list of function, it will face seriou competit from three establish name in mobil game: nintendo, nokia and soni.

the main competit is like to come from nintendo and soni. nintendo's ds handheld went on sale on 11 march and price at £99 cost far less than the gizmondo. it also ha a readi pool of fan of earlier nintendo handheld to draw on. in the first two dai it wa on sale in europ the 87,000 ds handheld were sold - a better debut than the gamecub enjoi. soni's psp wa due to make it european debut in march but now thi is like to be delai by a few month. the psp is due to go on sale in the us later thi month and a bundl includ the player, accessori and a copi of spiderman 2 is expect to cost about $250 (£129). the psp can also plai music and movi and support wireless multiplay game. nokia's n-gage could also be a competitor on the telecommun side. thi too cram a fulli function phone into a gadget that also plai game.
