confus over high-definit tv

now that a critic mass of peopl have embrac digit tv, dvd, and digit video record, the next revolut for tv is be prepar for our set.

in most corner of tv and technolog industri, high-definit (hdtv) is be herald as the biggest thing to happen to the televis sinc colour. hd essenti make tv pictur qualiti at least four time better than now. but there is real concern that peopl ar not get the right inform about hd on the high street. thousand of flat panel screen - lcd (liquid crystal displai), plasma screen, and dlp rear-project tv set - have alreadi been sold as "hd", but ar in fact not abl to displai hd.

"the uk is the largest displai market in europ," accord to john bink, director of gfk, which monitor global consum market.

but, he ad: "of all the flat panel screen sold, just 1.3% in the uk ar capabl of get high-definit." there ar 74 differ devic that ar be sold as hd but ar not hd-readi, accord to alexand oudendijk, senior vice presid of market for satellit giant astra. thei mai be fantast qualiti tv, but mani do not have adaptor in them - call dvi or hdmi (high-definit multimedia interfac) connector - which let the set handl the higher resolut digit imag. part of thi is down to lack of understand and train on the high street, sai industri expert, who gather at bafta in london for the 2nd european hdtv summit last week. "we have to be care about consum confus. there is a massiv educ process to go through," said mr bink. the industri alreadi recognis that it would be a challeng to get the right inform about it across to those of us who will be watch it. eventu, that will be everyon. the bbc is current develop plan to produc all it tv output to meet hdtv standard by 2010.

prepar for the analogu switch-off ar alreadi underwai in some area, and programm ar be film with hd camera. bskyb plan to ship it first gener set-top box, to receiv hdtv broadcast, in time for christma. like it sky+ box, thei will also be person video record (pvr). the compani will start broadcast of hdtv programm, offer them as "premium channel packag", concentr, to start with, on sport, big event, and film, in earli 2006. but the set-top box which receiv hdtv broadcast ha to plug into a displai - tv set - that can show the imag at the much higher resolut that hd demand, if hdtv is to be "real". by 2010, 20% of home in the uk will have some sort of tv set or displai that can show hd in it full glori.

but it is all get rather confus for peopl who have onli just taken to "be digit". as a result, all the kei player, those who make flat panel displai, as well as the satellit compani and broadcast, form a hd forum in 2004 to make sure thei were all talk to each other. part of the forum ha been concern with issu like industri standard and content protect. but it ha also been preoccupi with how to help the pai public know exactli what thei ar pai for.

from next month, all devic that have the right connector and resolut requir will carri a "hd-readi" sticker. thi also mean thei ar equip to cope with both analogu and hdtv signal, and so compli with the minimum specif set out by the industri. "the logo is absolut the wai forward," said david mercer, analyst with strategi analyt. "but it is still not appear on mani retail product." the industri is upbeat that the sticker will help, but it is onli a start. "we can onli do so much with the posit we ar in todai with manufactur," said mr oudendijk. "there mai well be a number of dissatisfi custom in the next few month." the european broadcast union (ebu) is test differ flavour of hd format to prepar for even better hdtv further down the line. it is similarli concern that peopl get the right inform on hdtv format, as well as which devic will support the format. "we believ consum bui expens displai need to ensur their invest is worthwhil," said phil laven, technic director for the ebu. the tv displai manufactur want us to watch hd on screen that ar at least 42in (106cm), to get the "true impact" of hd, thei sai, although smaller displai suffic. what mai convinc peopl to spend monei on hd-readi devic is the fall price, which continu to tumbl across europ. the price ar drop an averag of 20% everi year, accord to analyst. lcd price drop by 43% in europ as a whole last year, accord to mr oudendijk.
