digit uk driven by net and tv

the uk's adopt of digit tv and broadband ha help make it the fourth most digit-savvi nation in europ, accord a report by jupit research.

but the uk still lag in term of broadband speed compar to other. the most digit sophist european, in term of us of digit good such as mobil, tv, net and camera, ar the scandinavian. about 14 million household in the uk, 60%, have digit tv, accord to the commun regul ofcom. the least digit of the european nation wa greec, in 17th posit, accord to the digit life index.

scandinavian countri sweden, denmark and norwai came out top in the report, but there were some differ in technolog trend. "the european digit life index demonstr that digit lifestyl ar common todai, but across europ there is no singl digit lifestyl," said nate elliott, jupit analyst. "consum adopt differ digit product and servic in differ countri."

although there ar differ between differ european nation, the gap between them is close, the report conclud. the trend for gadget and technolog, such as digit video record (dvr), broadband, and video-on-demand will continu across europ, he ad. more than six million uk household now have broadband net. by the middl of 2005, it is estim that 50% of all uk net user will be on broadband. cabl compani ntl is triall faster adsl (asymmetr digit subscrib line) broadband technolog us adsl2+ which can give speed of 18mbp compar to current speed which ar usual around 1mbp or 2mbp. bt is set to trial the technolog later in the year. super-fast broadband will be necessari to the deliveri of servic such as high-definit tv (hdtv) and video-on-demand, alreadi veri popular in franc and other european countri.

a separ survei by gmipol last week found that, global, peopl's appetit for technolog and gadget continu unab. the poll of 20,000 peopl in 20 countri found that 59% want more technolog.

the comput wa the "must-have" gadget for most peopl (75%). the tv took second place (67%), while the mobil wa rank in third posit with 54%. digit camera were the most popular choic of gadget for 2005, said the survei, with nearli 40% choos thi over wireless, home print and dvr technolog. howev, onli 25% of briton said a digit camera would be their top gadget purchas of the year. almost a quarter, 22%, said thei would be bui some sort of wireless devic. forti-four percent said thei would be bui someth "other". thi might includ digit music player, or game devic. the nintendo ds, soni's psp and gizmondo all hit the shop in 2005, and the first of the next gener of game consol, xbox 2, is set to launch later thi year. jupit research's index is calcul us 40 differ variabl across net user, digit tv adopt, wireless and mobil, onlin activ, and digit devic.
