bad e-mail habit sustain spam

the 'bad behaviour' of e-mail user is help to sustain the spam industri, a new studi ha found.

accord to a survei conduct by secur firm mirapoint and market research compani the radicati group, nearli a third of e-mail user have click on link in spam messag. on in ten user have bought product advertis in junk mail. click on a link in a spam messag can expos peopl to virus and alert spammer to live e-mail account.

the fact that on in ten e-mail user ar bui thing advertis in spam continu to make it an attract busi, especi given that send out huge amount of spam cost veri littl, the report conclud. "thi preliminari data is surpris and somewhat shock to us," said marcel nienhui, market analyst at the radicati group. "it explain why e-mail secur threat includ spam, virus and phish scam continu to prolifer," he said, accus user of "bad e-mail behaviour". spammer ar increasingli hook into whatev happen to be flavour of the month, accord to secur firm clearswift. it ha recent seen a rise in the number of spam messag offer phonei soni psp giveawai. and, in perhap a nod to the popular of the american drama seri desper housew, it ha also seen a dramat rise in junk mail purport to give detail of women look for casual sex. but rather than find a companion, user who click on such mail will find themselv redirect to porn site, where thei run the risk of download spywar on to their pc. clearswift ha seen a 180% rise in sex-relat spam over the cours of the last month. "without cast aspers, those like to respond to these kind of advert will be invari hope that 'on thing lead to anoth' but asid from the fact that these mail ar bogu, click on ani link within a spam mail can lead to a whole host of unwant problem," said alyn hockei, clearswift's director of research.

sexual explicit term make up 14% of secur firm sopho' top 50 word that spammer most commonli try to disguis in order to beat anti-spam filter. spammer will deliber misspel a word or us digit instead of letter in an attempt to by-pass anti-spam softwar, said graham clulei, senior technolog consult for secur firm sopho. "the list of word most commonli hidden by the spammer from anti-spam softwar reveal that most spam is about the old favourit: monei, drug and sex," said mr clulei. but anti-spam filter can onli be part of the solut to the menac of junk e-mail. "peopl must resist their basic instinct to bui from spam mail. spammer ar crimin, plain and simpl. if no-on respond to junk e-mail and didn't bui product sold in thi wai, then spam would be as extinct as the dinosaur," he said.
