soni psp handheld consol hit us

the latest handheld game gadget, soni's playstat portabl, goe on sale in the us on thursdai.

the entertain devic, which also store imag, music and video, is intend to compet with nintendo's ds, releas earlier thi month in the uk. gamer have been queu outsid shop across the us to get their hand on the gadget, which cost $250 (about £132). the first million sold will come with the spider-man 2 film on umd, soni's own disc format for the devic. the psp can be link up with other for multiplay game, via a wireless connect. soni ha tout the machin as the walkman of the 21st centuri and ha sold more than 800,000 unit in japan sinc it launch there last year.

but it face stiff competit from the nintendo ds, which sold more than the gamecub in it first few dai on releas in europ. it too allow for multiplay game over the air. nintendo domin the handheld market, with more than a 90% share of the market in the us alon. the gizmondo combin media player, phone and game gadget also went on sale in the uk last week. it hope to take a share of the handheld game market too.

"the stori of the psp is it's not a game devic as much as it is a portabl entertain devic," said michael pachter, analyst at wedbush morgan secur. he told the reuter new agenc that he expect soni to sell about 10 million psp in enough time to rival appl's ipod. there is no date for the psp's releas in europ yet. soni ha promis to have a million unit readi for it us launch, but there ar fear demand mai not be met. it also said it expect to ship three million psp worldwid by the end of it fiscal year end 31 march.

the machin's european launch wa put back "a few month" last week in order to make sure enough of the devic were readi for it us launch, as well as satisfi the japanes market. the psp ha almost as much process power in it as the playstat 2 consol. hundr of gamer gather at us shop, some wait for more than 36 hour, to be the first to get their hand on the gadget. a spokesman for on us shop said it expect the devic to sell out on it first dai. the 24 game for the mini consol includ ap academi, formula on, wipeout pure and fire up. movi studio, includ lion gate entertain and disnei, have also announc forthcom film titl that will be made avail on the umd format.
