'podcast' look to net monei

nasa is do it, 14-year-old boi in bedroom ar do it, coupl ar do it, gadget lover - male and femal - ar definit do it.

it is podcast - dii radio in the form of download mp3 audio file. thei can done by anyon who ha a microphon, simpl softwar, the net, and someth to sai. some liken them to talk "audioblog" becaus mani complement text-base weblog - diari-like site where peopl share their thought. thei ar essenti amateur radio show on the net, on demand, and the "movement" is at veri earli stage. "it's about real peopl sai real thing and commun," sai adam curri, former mtv vj and the pi piper of podcast. he wa on of a commun of peopl who creat ipodd, a small comput program, known as an "aggreg".

it collect and automat send mp3 file to ani digit music-plai devic that can plai wmp format. those with digit music player can select which podcast thei like, and subscrib - for free - to that show's "feed". when a new podcast is avail, it is automat sent to the devic when connect to a comput. "it is total go to kill the busi model of radio," think curri. "i just did a tour of madison avenu where all the big brand and advertis agenc of the world ar," he sai. "and thei ar scare to death of the next gener - like my daughter who is 14 - who don't listen to radio. "thei ar on msn, thei've got their ipod, their mp3 player, thei've got their xbox - thei ar not listen to radio. "so how ar thei go to reach these audienc? "it is the distribut that is chang and the barrier ar be brought down so everyon can be part of it."

it is a fledgl movement, but it is gain momentum now that peopl have start think about how to make a busi from it. ian fogg, jupit research analyst, think there could be potenti for busi, but it could take an interest turn if big compani, like appl and microsoft, get involv. "it is a nascent area but quit excit. it is yet anoth area that demonstr the move to a digit lifestyl and digit home is not over," he sai.

"podcast is on of those interest area that bridg what you do at home and what you do out and about - a classic hybrid. it is anoth aspect of the "time-shift" of content - the latest industri buzzword for be abl to listen to what you want, when, and wherev you want. audienc ar in the 10s, 100s, and 1,000s rather than million. more than 4,300 podcast ar current list. curri's daili sourc code - which he commit to do daili to inspir the commun - ha 10s of thousand of listen.

but dave winer is doubt. he design the format call rss (realli simpl syndic), which give web user an easi wai to keep updat automat on site thei like. podcast reli on hi technolog becaus it is the wai thei ar distribut. he is also writer of the longest-run weblog on the net, script new. he think it power li in it democratis potenti, not in it "over-hype" busi promis.

"we're the sourc, the peopl do stuff, and podcast is a wai to tell peopl who care what we're do. "no matter how you look at it, commercialis thi medium isn't go to make veri much monei," he sai. "podcast is go to be a medium of nich, with 'audienc' measur in the singl digit, like e-mail or blog. "mayb in a few year, mayb six or seven digit. but it will have to sustain interest beyond the hype balloon." curri and associ ron bloom's new ventur, call podshow, is to help ordinari peopl produc, post, distribut and market their podcast. becaus of the wai podcast work, base on rss, the latest podcast which peopl can select mean that thei ar readi-made target. "when you look at podcast - wow thi is a pretti interest audienc. the audienc is pre-select. thei have decid to subscrib to your program," explain curri. advertis, in hi ey, can be tailor to podcast, to make it more imagin and unobtrus. "how i believ thi will work, is to creat a network that, in aggreg, will have enough number to support a return on invest for the advertis and for the podcast. "i have 50, 60, 70,000 listen. i could make a coupl of buck off that, but not much. if you ar talk a million podcast, and then you can kind of divid that amongst ourselv, then that is kind of interest." essenti, he sai, if you ar do a bass fish podcast, someon who is sell bait and tackl will probabl want to advertis on your show. he is clear the ad will not be the tradit "in-your-face" type familiar to commerci radio now. "we ar realli go to see these microcosm and commerc will be all over the place."

it is happen alreadi. coffe-love curri ha sold $4,000 worth of coffe machin through a referr link to amazon from hi site.

other us in-show promot, like the dawn and drew show. on, eric rice, ha won sponsorship from warner bro. he can now legal plai the music of a band warner bro want to push. some comment on the net sai it ha a similar feel to the dotcom dai. other sai it is just anoth element of set media free from big compani and let peopl be creativ. on thing is for sure; thei ar not about to disappear in a hurri. the creativ forc behind radio ar elat, sai curri. for now, he tune out the neg comment within the podcast commun. "i should be knight for thi," he add, with a wry chuckl, "peopl ar go to be so happi to sit at home, make their podcast, and make a littl monei."
