local net tv take off in austria

an austrian villag is test technolog that could repres the futur of televis.

the peopl of engerwitzdorf ar film, edit and produc their own region new channel. the channel cover local polit, sport, event and anyth that resid want to film and ar prepar to upload for other to watch on pc. the pilot ha been so success that telekom austria is now consid set up other project elsewher.

"it's grow unbeliev fast," said rudolf fischer, head of telekom austria's fix line divis. the trial of bunt fernsehen (multi-colour tv) wa start in late 2004 and creat a net-base tv station run by the 8,000 resid of engerwitzdorf. the hardwar and softwar to turn video footag into edit programm ha been provid by telekom austria but thi equip, follow train, ha been turn over to the villag. ani video programm creat by the villag is upload to a bunt fernsehen portal that let peopl brows and download what thei want to watch. most peopl watch the tv on their home pc and a broadband connect is need to get broadcast qualiti programm. in the first four month of the project villag have creat 60 film and put togeth regular report on local new item. "thei have adopt it veri quickli," said mr fischer. "thei like the possibl to creat their own content and see what's go on in the area." "it's kind of the democratis of local tv," he said, "becaus none of the bigger broadcast would ever do anyth like thi for that region." the bunt fernsehen project ha been such a success that telekom austria is now consid set up other scheme in similarli rural area. mr fischer said it wa take the roll-out to other area slowli becaus of the work involv in set up the scheme, get backer from local govern and educ peopl how to make programm. the engerwitzdorf scheme is an outgrowth of telekom austria's onlin tv channel aon which let peopl watch programm on their pc. aon stream a coupl of live channel, plu sport, new and music programm on to the net and ha a pai-for-download section that let peopl watch what thei want when thei want to watch it. in octob a larger tv-on-demand project is due to launch in vienna that will let peopl download mani programm from the net.
