roll out next gener's net

the bodi that overse how the net work, grow and evolv sai it ha cope well with it growth in the last 10 year, but it is just the start.

"in a sens, we have hardli start in reach the whole popul," the new chair of the internet engin task forc (ietf), brian carpent, sai. the ietf ensur the smooth run and organis of the net's architectur. with broadband take-up grow, servic like voic and tv will open up interest challeng for the net. "i think voip (voic-over internet protocol, allow phone call to be made over the net) is veri import - it challeng all the old cost model of telecom," sai dr carpent. "second, it challeng more deepli the busi model that you have to be a servic provid with a lot of infrastructur. with voip, you need veri littl infrastructur."

a distinguish ibm engin, dr carpent spent 20 year at cern, the european laboratori for particl physic. as the new chair of the ietf, hi next big challeng is overse ipv6, the next gener standard for inform transfer and rout across the web. at cern, dr carpent help pioneer advanc net applic dure the develop of the world wide web, so he is well-place to take on such a task. the net's growth and evolut depend on standard and protocol, and ensur the architectur work and talk to other standard is a crucial job of the ietf. the top prioriti is to ensur that the standard that make the net work, ar open and free for anyon to us and work with.

the net is built on a protocol call tcp/ip, which mean transmiss control protocol, and internet protocol. when comput commun with the net, a uniqu ip address is us to send and receiv inform. the ietf is a larg intern commun of network design, oper, vendor, and research work on the evolut of the net's architectur and the wai thi inform is sent and receiv. thei make sure it all knit togeth leav no gap. "we've seen some interest effect over last few year," explain dr carpent. "the net wa grow at a fantast rate at the end of the 90s. then there wa a bit of a glitch in 2000. "we ar now see a veri clear phase of consolid and renew growth."

that renew growth is also be buoi by emerg economi, like china, which ar show fast uptak of broadband net and other technolog. the number of broadband subscrib via dsl (digit subscrib line) doubl in a year to 13 million, accord to figur releas at the end of 2004. "the challeng we face ar about continu to produc standard to allow for that growth rate," explain dr carpent. "given it [the net] wa design for the whole commun, it ha done well to reach million. if you want to reach the whole popul, you have to make sure it can scale up." ipv6, the standard that will replac the exist ipv4, will allow for billion more address on the net, and it is gradual be work into network infrastructur across the world. "the actual number of address with ipv4 is limit to four billion ip address. "that clearli is not enough when you have 10 billion peopl to serv, so there is technic solut, the new version of ip - ipv6. "it ha much larger address space possibl with no practic limit," said dr carpent. standard ar vital to someth as complex as the net, and make sure standard ar open and can work with across network is a big task. the differ thi next gener standard, ipv6, will make to the averag net user is almost invis. "our first goal is that it [ipv6] should make no differ - peopl should not notic a differ. "it is like when the london telephon number got longer. a lot of the process will be invis. "peopl ar usual given an ip address without know it." technic deploy ha start and the standard for ar just about settl, said dr carpent.

the on problem with the net that mai never disappear complet is secur. to dr carpent, the solut come out of technolog and human behaviour. peopl have to be educ about "sensibl behaviour" he sai, such as ignor e-mail that claim you have won someth.

"i don't think it is go to get wors. peopl will remain concern about secur and thei probabl should do - just as you would be concern walk along a dark street. "we have to do work to make sure there ar better secur internet standard. it is a never-end battl in a sens." but, he add: "even if secur ha improv, you still worri a bit. unfortun, it is just part of life. we have a duti to do what we can."
