net fingerprint combat attack

eighti larg net servic firm have switch on softwar to spot and stop net attack automat.

the system creat digit fingerprint of ongo incid that ar sent to everi network affect. firm involv in the smart sens system believ it will help trace attack back to their sourc. data gather will be pass to polic to help build up intellig about who is behind worm outbreak and denial of servic attack.

firm sign up for the sens system includ mci, bt, deutsch telekom, energi, ntt, bell canada and mani other. the creation of the fingerprint system ha been broker by us firm arbor network and signatur of attack will be pass to anyon suffer under the weight of an attack. increasingli comput crimin ar us swarm of remot control comput to carri out denial of servic attack on websit, launch worm and relai spam around the net. "we have seen attack involv five and ten gigabyt of traffic," said rob pollard, sale director for arbor network which is behind the fingerprint system. "attack of that size caus collater damag as thei cross the internet befor thei get to their destin," he said. onc an attack is spot and it signatur defin the inform will be pass back down the chain of network affect to help everi unwit player tackl the problem.

mr pollard said arbor wa not charg for the servic and it would pass on fingerprint data to everi network affect. "what we want to do is help net servic firm commun with each other and then push the attack further and further back around the world to their sourc," said mr pollard. arbor network's technolog work by build up a detail histori of traffic on a network. it spot which comput or group of user regularli talk to each other and what type of traffic pass between machin or workgroup. ani anomali to thi usual pattern is spot and flag to network administr who can take action if the traffic is due to a net-base attack of some kind. thi type of close analysi ha becom veri us as net attack ar increasingli launch us sever hundr or thousand differ machin. anyon look at the traffic on a machin by machin basi would be unlik to spot that thei were all part of a concert attack. "attack ar get more diffus and more sophist," said malcolm seagrav, secur expert at energi. "in the last 12 month it start get notic that crimin were take to it and we've seen massiv growth." he said that although inform system exist to pass on inform about attack, often commerci confidenti got in the wai of share enough inform to properli combat attack.
