court mull file-share futur

judg at the us suprem court have been hear evid for and against file-share network.

the court will decid whether produc of file-share softwar can ultim be held respons for copyright infring. thei question if open the wai for the entertain industri to sue file-sharer could deter innov. thei also said that file-trade firm had some respons for induc peopl to piraci.

the lawsuit, brought by 28 of the world's largest entertain firm, ha rage for sever year. legal expert agre that if the suprem court find in favour of the music and movi industri thei would be abl to sue file-trade firm into bankruptci. but if the judg rule that grokster and morpheu - the file-sharer at the centr of the case - ar mere provid of technolog that can have legitim as well as illegitim us, then the music and movi industri would be forc to abandon it pursuit of file-share provid. instead, thei would have to pursu individu who us peer-to-peer network to get their hand on free music and movi. the hi-tech and entertain industri have been divid on the issu. intel file a document with the suprem court earlier thi month in defenc of grokster and other, despit misgiv about some aspect of the file-share commun. it sum up the attitud of mani tech firm in it submiss which state that it product "ar essenti tool, that like ani other tool, capabl of be us by consum and busi for unlaw purpos".

ask firm to second-guess the us that it technolog would be put to, and to build in wai of prevent illegitim us, would stifl innov, it said. the electron frontier foundat, a civil right watchdog, is also defend streamcast network, the compani behind the morpheu file-share softwar. the case rais a question of critic import at the border between copyright and innov, it said. it cite, as do mani, the landmark rule in 1984 which found that soni should not be held respons for the fact that it betamax video record could be us for piraci. defend remain optimist that the judg will rule in favour of the peer-to-peer network, uphold the preced set by the soni betamax case. a small band of support were outsid the court as the lawyer enter, wear "save betamax" t-shirt. "the betamax principl stand as the magna carta for the technolog industri and ar respons for the explos in innov that ha occur in the us over the past 20 year," said gari shapiro, chief execut of the consum electron associ. suprem court justic stephen breyer said that invent from print to appl's ipod could be us to illeg duplic copyright materi but had, on balanc, been benefici to societi. he said that while file-trade softwar can be us to illeg trade movi and music, conceptu the technolog had "some realli excel us".

base on tuesdai's hear it seem unlik that the betamax rule will be overturn but file-share firm might still be held respons for encourag or induc piraci. grokster's lawyer argu that the compani should be judg by it current behaviour rather than what it did when it first set up. but thi argument wa dismiss as "ridicul" by justic david souter. cea boss mr shapiro think the case is the most import that the suprem court will hear thi year. "it's about preserv america's proud histori of technolog innov and protect the abil of consum to access and utilis technolog," he said. the case ha alreadi been heard by two lower court and both found in favour of the peer-to-peer network. thei rule that despit be us to distribut million of illeg song, file-share could also be us to cheapli distribut softwar, govern document and promot copi of music.
