franc start digit terrestri

franc ha becom the last big european countri to launch a digit terrestri tv (dtt) servic.

initi, more than a third of the popul will be abl to receiv 14 free-to-air channel. despit the long wait for a french dtt roll-out, the new platform's backer hope to emul the success of it uk free-to-air counterpart, freeview. recent figur from the uk's regul ofcom show freeview wa more popular than the sky digit satellit servic. in the three month to septemb 2004, almost five time as mani peopl sign up to the uk's free-to-air dtt servic compar with sky. almost 60% of uk household have gone digit on at least on televis set through cabl, satellit or freeview.

the french dtt platform is known as tnt, which stand for tv numeriqu terrestr or digit terrestri televis. but it is be brand as televis numeriqu pour tou, or "digit televis for all". tnt is a joint ventur between public broadcast franc televis and a hand of cabl and satellit oper. digit terrestri tv will launch as a free-to-air platform to start with, ad pai-tv channel later. thirti-five contend have bid for an addit eight frequenc on top of the 14 alreadi alloc. "a coupl of year ago, dtt had a bad imag," said olivi gerolami, chief oper offic of tnt.

"but everyon's impress with dtt in the uk, itali and germani, and thei realis it is a veri good idea. "franc is the poorest market in europ in term of free-to-air nation channel, so it ha the potenti to be on of the biggest dtt market," mr gerolami ad in remark quot by the us entertain industri paper varieti. tnt aim to reach 35% of franc's popul at launch, from 17 transmiss site. the transmiss area will initi includ pari, lill, lyon and toulous. eventu there will be 115 site reach over 80% of home. digit terrestri set-top box ar avail from as littl as 70 euro (£50). a recent survei by mediametri found that 70% of peopl interview were awar of dtt, and 25% were plan to bui a digit receiv. consum electron compani such as nokia, sagem, soni and thomson ar gear up for product. the conseil superieur de l'audiovisuel (csa), the french broadcast regul, said: "follow the recent success of freeview in the uk, some manufactur ar optimist about sale prospect". media analyst believ that initi the major of viewer will bui inexpens set-top box that ar unabl to support interact servic. the csa said the current aim of reach 85% of the popul by 2007 wa achiev, but the futur of the remain tv viewer requir action by the public sector. for the most part, thei ar peopl live in mountain or border area, which will remain beyond the reach of digit terrestri tv for year.

up to 15 pai-tv channel will launch on dtt between septemb 2005 and march 2006. lead pai-tv oper canal plu and tp have submit bid to market bouquet of channel. free-to-air servic will be broadcast in mpeg-2 format. but pai-tv oper will be allow to broadcast in mpeg-4 - a much better compress technolog - which will potenti allow for high-definit (hd) subscript servic in the futur. tnt expect between 700,000 and on million dtt set-top box to be sold in 2005. "it is difficult to tell how quickli it will take off," said mr gerolami, "but we're optimist that it will revolutionis televis in franc." other analyst were less optimist, predict consum would now be less like to sign up for pai-tv subscript. "we think free dtt could put brake on the underli growth of pai-tv in franc," said henri de bodinat, vice-presid of the arthur d. littl consult.
