cab collect mountain of mobil

gadget ar cheaper, smaller and more common than ever. but that just mean we ar more like to lose them.

in london alon over the past six month more than 63,000 mobil phone have been left in the back of black cab, accord to a survei. that work out at about three phone per cab. over the same period almost 5,000 laptop and 5,800 pda such as palm and pocket pc were left in licens cab. even the great and good ar not immun to lose their belov gadget. jemima khan reportedli left her ipod, phone and purs in a cab and ask for them to be return to her friend who turn out to be hugh grant. as the popular of portabl gadget ha grown, and we trust more of our live to them, we seem to be forget them in ever larger number. the number of lost laptop ha leapt by 71% in the last three year.

thi ha left london, or those travel by cab in the capit, as the world's best at lose laptop, accord to the research by the licens taxi driver associ and pointsec, a mobil-data backup firm. more than twice as mani laptop were left in the back of black cab in london as in ani of the nine other citi (helsinki, oslo, munich, pari, stockholm, copenhagen, chicago and sydnei) where the research into lost and found gadget wa carri out. by contrast dane were most adept at lose mobil phone be seven time more like to leav it behind in a cab than travel in german, norwegian and swede. top of the rang phone can carri enorm amount of data - enough to hold hundr of pictur or thousand of contact detail. given that few peopl back up the data on their pc it is a fair bet that even fewer do so with the phone thei carri around. you could be lose a fair chunk of your life in the back of that cab not least becaus mani peopl collect number on their phone that thei do not have anywher els.

equal, phone let you navig through contact by name so mani peopl have complet forgotten their friend' number and could not reconstruct them if thei had to. thi grow habit of lose gadget explain the rise of firm such as retrofon which let peopl bui a cheap old-fashion phone to replac the tini, shini expens on thei have just lost. briton's grow love of phone ha also led to the creation of the mobil equip nation databas that let you regist the uniqu id number of your phone so it can be return to you in the event of it be lost or stolen. accord to statist 50% of all mug and snatch theft offenc involv mobil. million of gadget ar now log in the databas and organis such as transport for london regularli consult it when try to re-unit folk with their phone and other gadget. for the driver, find a mobil in the back of their cab is on of the more pleasant thing mani have found. the survei of what els ha been left behind includ a harp, a dog, a hamster and a babi.
