mobil tv tip as on to watch

scandinavian and korean, two of the most adventur group of mobil user, ar bet on mobil tv.

ander igel, chief execut of nordic oper teliasonera, tip it as the next big thing in mobil in a speech at the 3gsm world congress, a mobil trade fair, in cann thi week. nokia, the finnish handset maker, is plan a parti in singapor thi spring to launch it tv to mobil activ in the region. consult strategi analyt of boston estim that mobil broadcast network will have acquir around 51 million user worldwid by 2009, produc around $6.6bn (£3.5bn) in revenu.

sk telecom of south korea, which is launch a tv to mobil servic (via satellit) in mai plan to charg a flat fee of $12 a month for it 12 channel of video and 12 channel of audio. it will be abl to offer an addit two pai tv channel us condit access technolog. mr shin-bae kim, chief execut of sk telecom, also at 3gsm, said: "we have plan to integr tv with mobil internet servic.

"thi will enabl viewer to access the mobil internet to get more inform on advert thei see on tv." there will be 12 handset avail for the launch of the korean servic. lg electron of south korea wa demonstr on at 3gsm that could displai video at 30 frame a second. footag shown on the handset wa clear and watchabl. a speech on mobil tv by angel gambino of the bbc also drew a larg crowd, suggest that even those mobil oper and equip vendor which ar not particularli activ in mobil tv yet ar start to look into it.

but all is not simpl and straightforward in the mobil tv arena. there is a battl for supremaci between two compet standard: dvb-h for digit video broadcast for handset and dmb for digit multimedia broadcast. dr chan yeob yeun, vice presid and research fellow in charg of mobil tv at lg electron, said: "dmb offer twice the number of frame a minut as dvb-h and doe not drain mobil batteri as quickli." the japanes, korean and ericsson of sweden ar back dmb.

samsung of south korea ha a dmb phone too that will be on of those offer to user of the tu media satellit mobil tv servic to be launch in korea in mai. nokia, by contrast, is back dvb-h, and is involv in mobil tv trial that us it art-deco style media phone, which ha a larger than usual screen for tv or visual radio (a wai of accompani a radio programm with relat text and pictur). mobil oper o2 and vodafon ar among the oper triall mobil tv. but even if the standard battl is resolv, there is the thorni issu of broadcast right. ms gambino sai the bbc now negoti mobil right when it is negoti content.

for those not convinc mobil user will want to watch tv on their handset, digit audio broadcast mai provid a good compromis and better sound qualiti than convent radio. develop in thi area ar continu. at a dab confer in cann, sever maker of dab chip for mobil announc smaller, lower- cost chip which consum less power. among the chip compani present were frontier silicon and radioscap. the juri is still out on whether tv and digit radio on mobil will make much monei for anyon. but with mani new servic go live soon, it won't be long befor the industri find out.
