appl laptop is 'greatest gadget'

the appl powerbook 100 ha been chosen as the greatest gadget of all time, by us magazin mobil pc.

the 1991 laptop wa chosen becaus it wa on of the first "lightweight" portabl comput and help defin the layout of all futur notebook pc. the magazin ha compil an all-time top 100 list of gadget, which includ the soni walkman at number three and the 1956 zenith remot control at two. gadget need move part and/or electron to warrant inclus. the magazin staff compil the list and specifi that gadget also need to be a "self-contain apparatu that can be us on it own, not a subset of anoth devic".

"in gener we includ onli item that were potenti mobil," said the magazin.

"in the end, we tri to get to the heart of what realli make a gadget a gadget," it conclud. the oldest "gadget" in the top 100 is the abacu, which the magazin date at 190 a.d., and put in 60th place. other pre-electron gadget in the top 100 includ the sextant from 1731 (59th posit), the marin chronomet from 1761 (42nd posit) and the kodak browni camera from 1900 (28th posit). the tivo person video record is the newest devic to make the top 10, which also includ the first flash mp3 player (diamond multimedia), as well as the first "success" digit camera (casio qv-10) and mobil phone (motorola startac). the most popular gadget of the moment, the appl ipod, is at number 12 in the list while the first soni transistor radio is at number 13.

soni's third entri in the top 20 is the cdp-101 cd player from 1983. "who can forget the crystallin, hiss-free blast of madonna's like a virgin eman from their first cd player?" ask the magazin. karl elsen's knife, the swiss armi knife from 1891, is at number 20 in the list. gadget which could be said to featur surprisingli low down in the list includ the origin telephon (23rd), the nintendo gameboi (25th), and the pulsar quartz digit watch (36th). the list also contain plenti of odditi: the pez sweet dispens (98th), 1990s toi tamagotchi (86th) and the bizarr ronco insid the shell egg scrambler (84th).

almost everyon ha a mobil phone, how mani peopl own a powerbook? or an ipod? the find of thi magazin ar not veri convinc.

what about the magnet compass? we still us it 1,000 year after it wa invent.

i am amaz by the obsess with individu gadget rather than genr. for exampl the soni walkman wa the first truli portabl wai of listen to your own music on the move wherea minidisc, flash mp3, portabl cd player etc. ar realli just improv in technolog.

my favourit 'true' gadget ar probabl my portabl minidisc player and the littl batteri power whizzi thing i us to froth up my coffe!

calm down it's onli in their opinion, and ani list that includ the taser in the top 100 gadget ha to be suspect....

swiss armi knife and no question about it. how mani of the other item ar still rel unchang from the origin idea and still as us/popular? you don't need a laptop or even a pocket calcul to work that on out!

thi list mere illustr interest cultur divid between the american author and the overwhelmingli british respons. brit see no further than mobil phone and the over thirti sinclair; whilst the american focu on appl, tv remot and tivo (which probabl is rather obscur in europ).

what about the soda stream. thi gadget chang my pre-teen life. lap top mai enabl you to "think differ, but you cant us them to "get busi with the fizzi"

how about astro war, on of the pioneer for comput game, i rememb spend mani an hour plai thi and it still work todai! howev tri it the other dai and it wa rubbish, still a great gadget of it time.

why worri about mobil phone. soon thei will be subsum into the pda's / laptop etc.

what about the marin chronomet? complet revolutionis navig for boat and wa in us for centuri. for it's time, a technolog marvel!

soni net minidisc! it pave the wai for more mp3 player to explod onto the market. i alwai us my netmd, and could not go anywher without it.

a laptop comput is not a gadget! it's a work tool!

the sinclair execut wa the world's first pocket calcul. i think thi should be there as well.

how about the clockwork radio? or gp? or a pocket calcul? all these thing ar us to real peopl, not just pc magazin editor.

ar the peopl who creat thi list insan ? sure the most import gadget of the modern ag is the mobil phone? it ha revolutionis commun, which is more than can be said for a nich market laptop. from outsid the modern ag, the marin chronomet is the singl most import gadget, without which modern transport system would not have evolv so quickli.

ha everyon forgot about the brevil pie maker??

an interest list. of the electron gadget, thousand of journalist in the earli 1980s bless the origin noteboook pc - the tandi 100. the size of a4 paper and light, three week on a set of batteri, an excel keyboard, a modem. a piti tandi did not make it do compat.

what's an appl powerbook 100 ? it's out of date - not much of a "gadget". sure it ha to be someth simpl / timeless - the tin open, swiss armi knife, safeti razor blade, wristwatch or the thing for take stone out of hors hoov ?

it ha to be the mobil phone. no other singl devic ha had such an effect on our wai of live in such a short space of time.

the ball point pen ha got to be on of the most us and common gadget ever. also mani might be grate for the pocket calcul which wa a great improv over the slide rule.

the casio pocket calcul that plai a simpl game and made tinni nois wa also a hot gadget in 1980. a true gadget, it could be carri around and shown off.

all top 10 ar electron toi, so the list is probabl a better reflect of the current high-tech obsess than anyth els. i sai thi as the swiss armi knife onli made no 20.

sinclair ql a machin far ahead of it time. the first home machin with a true multi-take os. shame the market wa so bad!!!

appl.. a triumph of fashion over... well everyth els.

utter rubbish. ye, the appl laptop and soni walkman ar classic gadget. but to call the sextant and the marin chronomet 'gadget' and rank them as less import than a tv remot control reveal a quit shock lack of histor perspect. the former liter help chang the world by vastli improv navig at see. the latter is the seed around which the couch potato cultur ha develop. no competit.

i'd also put appl's newton and the first palm pilot there as the front runner for portabl comput, and possibl the toshiba libretto for the same reason. i onli wish that vulcan inc's flipstart wasn't just vapourwar otherwis it would be at the top.

how did a laptop ever manag to beat off the challeng of the wristwatch or the telephon (mobil or otherwis)? what about radio and tv?

the swiss armi knife. by far the most us gadget. i got mine 12 year ago. still wear and us it a lot! it stood the test of time.

psion organis seri 3, should be up there. had a usabl qwerti keyboard, remov storag, good set of app and programm. case design wa good (batteri in the hing - a first, i think). great product innov.

the first mobil pc wa vote best gadget by reader of...err... mobil pc?! why do you keep put these obvious bias list on your site? it's obvious the mobil phone or remot control, and reader of a less partisan public would tell you that.

the motorola startac should be number on. why? there will be mobil phone long after notebook comput and other gadget ar either gone or integr in commun devic.

the psion seri 3c! the first most practic wai to carri all your info around...

i too would back the sinclair spectrum - without thi littl beauti i would never have move into the world of it and earn the live that i do now.

i'd have put the mobil phone high up the list. probabl a nokia model.

sinclair spectrum - 16k. it plug into the tv. game were rubbish but it gave me a tast for program and that's what i do for a live now.

i wish more modern notebook -- even appl's newest offer -- were more like the pb100. particularli dishearten is the demis of the trackbal, which ha given wai to the larg useless "trackpad" which everi notebook on the market todai us. thei're invari inaccur, uncomfort, and cumbersom to us.

congratul to appl, a deserv win!
