kenyan school turn to handheld

at the mbita point primari school in western kenya student click awai at a handheld comput with a stylu.

thei ar do exercis in their school textbook which have been digitis. it is a pilot project run by eduvis, which is look at wai to us low cost comput system to get up-to-date inform to student who ar current stuck with ancient textbook. matthew herren from eduvis told the bbc programm go digit how the non-government organis us a combin of satellit radio and handheld comput call e-slate. "the e-slate connect via a wireless connect to a base station in the school. thi in turn is connect to a satellit radio receiv. the data is transmit alongsid audio signal." the base station process the inform from the satellit transmiss and turn it into a form that can be read by the handheld e-slate. "it download from the satellit and everi dai process the stream, sort through content for the materi destin for the user connect to it. it also store thi on it hard disc."

the system is cheaper than instal and maintain an internet connect and convent comput network. but mr herren sai there ar both pro and con to the project. "it's veri simpl to set up, just a satellit antenna on the roof of the school, but it's also a on-wai connect, so get feedback or specif request from end user is difficult."

the project is still at the pilot stage and eduvis staff ar on the ground to attend to teeth problem with the linux-base system. "the content is divid into visual inform, textual inform and question. user can scroll through these section independ of each other." eduvis is plan to includ audio and video file as the system develop and add more content. mr herren sai thi would vastli increas the opportun avail to the student. he is current in negoti to take advantag of a project be organis by search site googl to digitis some of the world's largest univers librari. "all book in the public domain, someth like 15 million, could be put on the base station as we manufactur them. then everi rural school in africa would have access to the same librari as the student in oxford and harvard" current the project is oper in an area where there is main electr. but mr herren sai eduvis alreadi ha plan to extend it to more remot region. "we plan to put a solar panel at the school with the base station, have the e-slate charg dure the dai when the children ar in school, then thei can take them home at night and continu work." maciej sundra, who design the user interfac for the e-slate, sai the project's ultim goal is level access to knowledg around the world. "why in thi ag when most peopl do most research us the internet ar student still us textbook? the fact that we ar do thi in a rural develop countri is veri excit - as thei need it most."
