tough rule for rington seller

firm that flout rule on how rington and other mobil extra ar sold could be cut off from all uk phone network.

the rule allow offend to be cut off if thei do not let consum know exactli what thei get for their monei and how to turn off the servic. the first month under the new rule ha seen at least ten firm suspend while thei clean up the wai thei work. the rule have been brought in to ensur that the problem plagu net user do not spread to mobil phone.

in the last coupl of year rington, wallpap, screensav and lot of other extra for phone have becom huge popular. but fierc competit is make it difficult for firm to get their ware in front of consum, said jeremi flynn, head of third parti servic at vodafon.

"if you ar not on the oper's portal you ar go to have quit heavi market cost becaus it's a problem of how peopl discov your servic," he said. to combat thi mani rington and other mobil content seller start us a new tactic to squeez more cash out of custom. thi tactic involv sign peopl up for a subscript to give them, for instanc, sever rington per week or month instead of the singl track thei thought thei were get. mr flynn said that the move to us subscript happen over the space of a few week at the end of 2004. websit such as grumbletext.co.uk start get report from custom who were rack up larg bill for phone content thei did not know thei had sign up for. "what made us uncomfort wa that these servic were not be market transpar," said mr flynn. "peopl did not know thei were be offer a subscript servic." "we saw potenti for substanti consum harm here," he ad.

the swift adopt of subscript servic led to the creation of a new code of conduct for firm that want to sell content for mobil phone. the draft of the new rule wa led by the mobil entertain forum and the uk's phone firm. "everyon is requir to conform to thi code of conduct," said andrew bud, regulatori head of the mef and execut chairman of messag firm mblox.

"it's all about transpar," he said. "consum have to be told what thei have got themselv into and how to get out of it." "the consum ha a right to be protect," he said. christian harri, partnership manag of mobil content firm zed, said the new system wa essenti if consum were to trust compani that sell rington and other download. "the groundrul must be appli across the whole industri and if that's done effect we will see the cowboi driven out," he said. the new rule came in to forc on 15 januari and the first month under the new regim ha seen mani firm caution for not honour them. some have been told to revamp websit so custom know what thei get for their monei and what thei ar sign up for, said mr flynn. also, said mr flynn, vodafon ha briefli cut off between eight and ten content seller flout the rule. "we have quit draconian contract with firm," he said. "we do not have to sai why. we can just cut them off." under the rule consum must be abl to switch off the servic by us a univers "stop" command sent via text messag. he said the system had been design to limit how much a consum will pai if thei inadvert sign up for a servic. "the mobil is so person that peopl realli resent the abus of what is effect part of their person," said mr flynn.
