mobil music challeng 'ipod ag'

nokia and microsoft have agre a deal to work on deliveri of music to handset, while soni ericsson ha unveil it phone walkman and motorola is work on an itun phone.

can mobil phone replac the mp3 player in your pocket? the music download market ha been grow steadili sinc record firm embrac digit distribut. eas of us, rel low price and increas access to broadband ha help drive the phenomen growth of mp3 player.

full-length music download on mobil phone have not taken off so quickli - held back by technic challeng as well as issu over music avail. but the mobil music industri is confid that the dai of dedic mp3 player ar number.

gill babinet, chief execut of mobil music firm musiwav, said: "music download on mobil have the potenti to be the biggest-ever medium for music."

musiwav provid download infrastructur for the mobil phone market and mr babinet said the industri wa enjoi "definit momentum." but there ar hurdl to overcom. mobil phone offer limit storag for music - certainli noth to rival appl's 60gb ipod. but the first mobil phone with hard disk player will be on the market soon and the current gener of mobil us flash technolog can store up to on gigabyt of music - enough for 250 song. "we ar work in the hard disk area and we will be bring out excit devic," jona guest, vice presid for entertain at nokia, told the bbc new websit. but will mobil becom mere storag devic? "on of the problem we could have is that mobil ar us just for storag and playback while pc ar us for download," said mr babinet

"we don't want peopl to cast asid their pc - we want mobil user to hook up into the exist ecosystem," explain mr guest. "you must enabl peopl to transfer music from a pc to a handset and vice versa."

on of the kei element of the nokia and microsoft deal is the agre abil to transfer song between a handset and a pc. microsoft will adopt open standard allow music to cross boundari for the first time. song can be download on pc or mobil and transfer between the platform. "the line between onlin and wireless is go to blur," predict ted cohen, senior vice presid of digit develop and distribut at emi. he said: "the market is more region in it matur. in asia it is beyond belief. "the major of our digit revenu in asia come from mobil. in north america it is fix line while there is equilibrium in europ."

emi current offer it entir 200,000 download catalogu for us by both by pc and mobil phone. mr cohen said: "it's go to be just as import to connect through 3g or wireless as it is through your pc. "we want music to be a continuum." the seamless experi of mobil and pc download is approach, he predict. mr babinet said the mobil phone had a number of advantag over pc which would see it becom the focu for music download in the futur. "get music from your pc onto a devic is not an easi experi. you have to switch the pc on, load the oper system, load the program, bui the music, download the music, and then transfer the music. "all of these step can be done in on step on a mobil phone." he said the mobil phone's bill system would make it easier for teenag to embrac download, becaus pre-paid card were alreadi accept by the ag group.

"certainli, we have a problem with batteri, memori and bandwidth. but it's not about the current statu. it's about the potenti. "you will have all of your music on your mobil." all three men said that the social interact of mobil music would drive the market. mr cohen said: "i can send you the song and it is either bill to me or i send it to you and if you listen to it and want to keep, it is bill to you. "it's a social phenomenon." mr babinet said: "todai you us radio and tv to discov music. tomorrow you will discov and consum music via on devic - the mobil."
