china 'ripe' for media explos

asia is set to drive global media growth to 2008 and beyond, with china and india fill the two top spot, analyst have predict.

japan, south korea and singapor will also be strong player, but china's demograph give it the edg, a media confer in london heard. the world's most popul countri - popul 1.3bn - now ha about 200 million middl-class consum. forti per cent fall in the kei 16 to 35-year-old demograph. as a result, it is attract huge foreign invest in media and commun, analyst told the financi time new media and broadcast confer last week. interest in china among intern media group ha surg in recent month after beij issu rule allow foreign invest in joint-ventur televis, radio and film product compani. new corpor, viacom and soni pictur ar among the big name involv in joint ventur with chines player.

more than 700 million chines listen to 1,000 radio station, while 200 tv station broadcast 2,900 channel. china central televis (cctv), the state broadcast, claim an audienc of more than a billion peopl. of the countri's 360 million household, 100 million receiv cabl tv programm. the rest could be a potenti audienc for satellit broadcast which china plan to launch in 2006. the state administr of radio, film and televis (sarft), which regul broadcast, plan to move all programm to digit by 2015. the continu roll-out of new digit channel ha boost demand for qualiti content, creat signific opportun for both chines and foreign content provid.

but accord to recent report from china, the author have tighten control over foreign invest in tv product joint ventur. it ha limit most foreign compani to onli on joint ventur and ban the involv of ani found to be "unfriendli", accord to report. the sarft said: "there is a veri strong ideolog compon to product of broadcast televis programm." it ad: "china must understand the polit tendenc and background of oversea partner and prevent joint ventur or cooper from bring harm foreign think or cultur into our product sector." accord to the financi time' china correspond, the new rule highlight the polit sensit that surround foreign involv in china's media sector. thi is despit beij's decis to open the state-domin sector to intern invest.

as well as tradit broadcast, chines and foreign entrepreneur alik see fortun wait to be made in new media, like mobil servic and onlin game. mobil game alreadi account for 15% of revenu from china's 340 million mobil user.

onlin game sale ar predict to top a billion us dollar next year, accord to the uk-base journal screen digest. the video market is also seen as a big opportun, although piraci level ar still veri high despit an anti-piraci drive dure the past year. in the cinema industri the deploy of digit screen is be acceler. thi is not just to modernis venu but also to curb piraci and regul distribut. li ruigang, presid of the commerci broadcast shanghai media group, told the confer that china's new media market "is alreadi experienc explos growth". it wa particularli strong in charg broadband servic and mobil valu-ad servic. lead china-watcher, and founder of the cga consult jeann-mari gescher, agre that the time wa ripe for foreign media group to tap china's huge media market potenti. "china's media ar now driven by investor who do not care how peopl consum media - thei just want peopl to consum more of it," mr gescher conclud.
