video phone act as date tool

technolog, from e-mail, to net chatroom, instant messag and mobil, have prove to be a big pull with those look for love.

the lure onc wa that you could hide behind the technolog, but now video phone ar in on the act to add vision. hundr have submit a mobil video profil to win a place at the world's first video mobil date event. the top 100 meet their match on 30 novemb at london's institut of contemporari art (ica). the event, organis by the 3g network, 3, could catch on as the trend for unusu date event, like speed date, continu. "it's the begin of the end of the blind date as we know it," said graem oxbi, 3's market director. the respons ha been so promis that 3 sai it is plan to launch a proper commerci date servic soon. hundr of hope submit their profil, and special booth were set up in a major london depart store for two week where expert tip were given on how to visual improv their chanc. the 100 most popular contest vote by the public will gather at the ica in separ room and "meet" by phone.

date servic and other more adult match-make servic ar prove to be a strong stream of revenu worth million for mobil compani. whether it doe actual provid an interest match for video phone technolog remain to be seen. flic everett, journalist and date expert for compani magazin and the daili express, think technolog ha been liber for some nervou soul-mate seeker. there ar current about 1.3 million video phone in us in the uk and three time more singl peopl in britain than there were 30 year ago, with more peopl bui video mobil, 3g date could be the basi for a success and safe wai to meet peopl.

"on of the problem with video phone is peopl don't realli know what to video. it is a weird technolog. we have not quit work out what it is for. thi give it a focu and a us on," she told bbc new. "i would never have thought onlin date would take off the wai it did," she said. "lot of peopl find it easier to be honest write e-mail or text than face-to-face. lot peopl ar quit shy and thei feel vulner." "when you ar write, it come directli onto the page so thei tend to be more honest." but the barrier that come with sm chat and onlin match-make is that the person behind the profil mai not be who thei realli ar. scare stori have put peopl off as a result, accord to ms everett. mani physic clue, bodi languag, odd twitch, ar obvious miss with sm and onlin date servic. still imag do not necessarili provid all those necessari cue. "it could realli take off becaus you do get the whole packag. with a static e-mail pictur, you don't know who the person is behind it is." so check out a potenti date by video phone also give singleton a differ kind of barrier, an extra layer of protect; a case of wlt befor wltm. "if you ar trap in real-life blind date context, you can't get awai and you feel embarrass. "with a video meet, you realli have the barrier of the phone so if you don't like them you don't have to suffer the embarrass."

there is a more seriou side to thi new us of technolog though. with monei be made through more adult-theme content and servic which let peopl meet and chat, the revenu stream for mobil carrier will grow with 3g, think paolo pescator mobil industri specialist for analyst idc. "wireless is a medium that is be exploit with a number of featur and servic. on is chat and the date element is kei there," he said. "the foundat ha been set by sm and compani ar us media like mm and video to grow the market further." but carrier need to be wari and ensur that if thei do launch such 3g date servic, thei ensur mechan ar in place to monitor and be awar who is regist and access these servic on regular basi, he caution. in juli, vodafon introduc a content control system to protect children from such adult content. the move wa as a result of a code of practic agre by the uk's six largest mobil phone oper in januari. the system mean vodafon user need to prove thei ar over 18 befor firewal ar lift on explicit websit or chat room deal with adult theme. the impetu wa the grow number of peopl with handset that could access the net, and the growth of 3g technolog.
