savvi searcher fail to spot ad

internet search engin user ar an odd mix of naiv and sophist, suggest a report into search habit.

the report by the us pew research center reveal that 87% of searcher usual find what thei were look for when us a search engin. it also show that few can spot the differ between paid-for result and organ on. the report reveal that 84% of net user sai thei regularli us googl, ask jeev, msn and yahoo when onlin.

almost 50% of those question said thei would trust search engin much less, if thei knew inform about who paid for result wa be hidden. accord to figur gather by the pew research the averag user spend about 43 minut per month carri out 34 separ search and look at 1.9 webpag for each hunt. a signific chunk of net user, 36%, carri out a search at least weekli and 29% of those ask onli look everi few week. for 44% of those question, the inform thei ar look for is critic to what thei ar do and is inform thei simpli have to find.

search engin user also tend to be veri loyal and onc thei have found a site thei feel thei can trust tend to stick with it. accord to pew research 44% of searcher us just a singl search engin, 48% us two or three and a small number, 7%, consult more than three site. toni macklin, spokesman for ask jeev, said the result reflect it own research which show that peopl us differ search engin becaus the wai the site gather inform mean thei can provid differ result for the same queri. despit thi like for search site half of those question said thei could get the same inform via other rout. a small number, 17%, said thei wouldn't realli miss search engin if thei did not exist. the remain 33% said thei could not live without search site. more than two-third of those question, 68%, said thei thought that the result thei were present with were a fair and unbias select of the inform on a topic that can be found on the net. alongsid the grow sophist of net user is a lack of awar about paid-for result that mani search engin provid alongsid list of websit found by index the web. of those ask, 62% were unawar that someon ha paid for some of the result thei see when thei carri out a search. onli 18% of all searcher sai thei can tell which result ar paid for and which ar not. said the pew report: "thi find is iron, sinc nearli half of all user sai thei would stop us search engin if thei thought engin were not be clear about how thei present paid result." comment mr macklin said sponsor result must be clearli mark and though thei might help with some queri user test show that peopl need to be abl to spot the differ.
