tv's futur down the phone line

internet tv ha been talk about sinc the start of the web as we know it now.

but ani earli attempt to do it - the uk's home choic start in 1992 - were thwart by the lack of a fast network. now that broadband network ar bed down, and it is becom essenti for million, the big telco ar keen to start shoot video down the line. in the face of competit from cabl compani offer net voic call, thei ar keen to be the top iptv dog. softwar giant microsoft think iptv - internet protocol tv - is the futur of televis, and it sit neatli with it vision of the "connect entertain experi". "telco have been want to do video for a long time," ed graczyk, director of market for microsoft iptv, told the bbc new websit. "the challeng ha been the broadband network, and the state of technolog up until not so long ago did not add up to a feasibl solut. "compress technolog wa not effici enough, the net wa not good enough. a lot of star have align in the last 18 month to make it a realiti."

last year, he said, wa all about deal make and partner up; shape the "iptv ecosystem". thi year, those deal will start to plai out and more servic will come onlin. "2006 is where it start ramp up and expand to other geographi - over time as broadband becom more preval in south america, and other part of asia, it will expand," he ad. what telco realli want to do is to send the "tripl-plai" of video, voic, and data down on singl line, be it cabl or dsl (digit subscrib line). some ar talk about "quadrupl plai", too, with mobil servic ad into the mix. it is an emerg new breed of competit for satellit and cabl broadcast and oper. accord to technolog analyst, tdg research, there will be 20 million subscrib to iptv servic in under six year.

kei to the appeal of send tv programm down the same line as the web data, whenev a viewer want it, is that it us the same technolog as the internet. it mean there is not just a on-wai relationship between the viewer and the "broadcast". thi allow for more dvd-like interact, limitless storag and broadcast space, bespok channel "playlist", and thousand of hour of programm or film at a viewer's fingertip. it potenti let oper target programm to smaller, nich or localis audienc, send film to bollywood fan for instanc, as well as individu devic.

oper could also send high-definit programm straight to the viewer, bypass the need for a special broadcast receiv. perhap most compel - yet some might sai insignific - is instantan channel flick. current, there is a delai when you try to do thi on satellit, cabl or freeview. with iptv, the speed is 15 millisecond. "that get round of applaus," accord to mr graczyk. microsoft is on of the compani that start think about iptv some time ago. "we believ thi will be the wai all tv is deliv in the futur - but that is sever year awai," said mr graczyk. "as with music, tv ha move to digit format. "the thing softwar can do to integr media into devic mean a whole new gener of connect entertain experi that cross devic from the tv, to the mobil, to the game consol and so on." the compani intend it microsoft's iptv edit softwar, an end-to-end manag and deliveri platform, to let telco to do exactli that, seamlessli. it ha net seven major telco as custom, repres a potenti audienc of 25 million exist broadband subscrib. it deal with us telco sbc wa the largest tv softwar deal to date, said mr graczyk.

iptv is about more than telco, though. there ar sever web-base offer that aim to put control in the hand of the consum by exploit the net's power. jeremi allair, chief of brightcov, told the bbc new websit that it would be a flavour of iptv that wa about har the web as a "channel".

"it is not just nich, but about exploit content not usual view," he said. "we ar focuss on the owner of video content who have right to digit distribut content, and who often see unencumb distribut. "for them to do it through cabl and so on is price-prohibit," he said. thi type of iptv servic might also be a distribut channel for more establish publish who have uniqu type of content that thei cannot offer through cabl and satellit oper - histori channel archiv, for instanc. what is a clear sign that iptv ha a futur is that microsoft is not the onli player in the field. there ar a lot of other "middlewar" player provid similar manag servic as microsoft, like myrio and c-cor. but it will up to the viewer to decid if it realli is to be success.
