cebit fever take over hanov

thousand of product and ten of thousand of visitor make cebit the place to be for technolog lover.

"welcom to cebit 2005" wa the messag from the pilot as we land, the messag on flyer at the airport, and the messag on just about everi billboard in town. cebit fever ha taken over hanov. hotel have been book out for month; local peopl ar let out room in their home to the hoard of exhibitor, visitor, and journalist. cebit itself is huge, the exhibit site could almost be classifi as a town in it own right.

there ar restaur, shop, and a bu servic between the hall - of which there ar 27. there ar more than 6,000 compani here, show their latest product. the list of them that i wa given when i came in is the size and weight of a phone book. on of the main theme thi year is the digit home, and on of the kei buzzword is converg.

the "entertain pc" is be bill as the replac for dvd player, stereo, telephon and comput - offer a on-box solut, wirelessli connect throughout a hous. to show them off, on displai ha been model as a prototyp "digit lifestyl home" by german magazin comput resel new. "we want to show how thi fit into a live room or workplac, to give peopl a feel how it would work in their home," said claudia neull from the magazin. the hous ha webcam for secur in each room, which can be call up on the high definit tv, connect to the pc in the live room.

that pc provid home entertain, movi or music. it can also be link to the car park outsid, which is kit out with a processor of it own, along with a dvd player and cordless headphon for the kid in the back. "converg for me is about how technolog, the transfer of data, can do thing that make it easier and more conveni for me as a consum," said mark brailei, director of corpor market for intel. "the real challeng is to show peopl it's easier than thei think, and fun."

he firmli believ that entertain pc ar the futur, but sai thei have to get past peopl's fear of frequent crash and incompat. that is someth microsoft is try to do too - it stand ha comput run window xp media centr edit 2005 for peopl to try out. mobil phone do not escap the converg theme. samsung is show off it sgh-i300, a handset with a three gigabyt hard drive, that can be us to watch compress video or as an mp3 player. and if you would rather watch live tv than a download movi nec is show a phone, on sale in china, which can show analogu tv on it colour screen.

"i think the most probabl applic is at somewher like the train station - if you want to check the statu of the soccer game for exampl" said koji umemoto, manag of mobil termin market for nec. he admit that the signal qualiti is not veri good if you ar on the move, and thei do not have plan to launch it in europ at the moment. nokia wa happi to demonstr it 6230i, an upgrad to the veri popular 6230.

it now ha a 1.3 megapixel camera, and a music player that can handl multipl format, rather than just mp3s. it is also compat with nokia's new visual radio technolog. the handset can receiv fm broadcast, and the user can interact with compat broadcast us a gpr connect, to take part in competit or get extra inform such as the name of the song plai. most compani ar reluct to show prototyp, prefer to displai product that ar alreadi on sale, or just about to hit the market.

portabl media player firm creativ show off a new wireless technolog, base on magnet induct rather than radio - a system some hear aid us. "the benefit over convent bluetooth ar the lack of interfer, and longer batteri life," said riccardo de rinaldini, creativ's european market manag. the firm ha a prototyp headset link up to a zen micro player. the transmitt on the player creat a privat, magnet "bubbl" around the user, which is pick up by the headset. the rang is onli about on metr so it is onli suitabl for person us. a singl aaa batteri is said to last up to 30 hour. creativ expect it to hit the market in it final form later thi year. even cloth is like to be part of the converg trend. adida ha a trainer which, accord to susann riss from the compani, can "sens, understand, and adapt to your run style". it ha a batteri, processor, and motor embed in the sole. button on the side allow you to set the amount of cushion you would like by adjust the tension on a cabl run through the heel. the processor then monitor the surfac you ar run on, and adjust the tension accordingli. it is be bill as "the world's first intellig shoe".
