new consol promis big problem

make game for futur consol will requir more graphic artist and more monei, an industri confer ha been told.

soni, microsoft and nintendo will debut their new consol at the annual e3 game expo in lo angel in mai. these so-call "next gener" machin will be faster than current consol, and capabl of displai much higher-qualiti visual. for gamer, thi should make for better, more immers game. in a pre-record video slot dure microsoft's keynot address at the game develop confer, held last week in san francisco, fame director jame cameron reveal he is make a game in tandem with hi next film - believ to be battl angel alita. the game's visual qualiti would be "like a lucid dream," said mr cameron. but numer speaker warn that creat such graphic will requir more artist, and so next gener consol game will be much more expens to develop. the first new consol, microsoft's xbox 2, is not expect to reach the shop until the end of 2005. game typic take at least 18 month to creat, howev, so develop ar grappl with the hardwar todai.

accord to robert walsh, head of brisban-base game develop krome studio, next gener game will cost between $10-25m to make, with team averag 80 staff in size take two year to complet a titl. such sum mean it will be difficult for anyon to start a new game studio, said mr walsh. "if you're a start-up, i doubt that a publish is go to walk in and give you a chequ for $10m, howev good you ar," he said. mr walsh suggest that new studio should make game for mobil phone and handheld consol like the soni psp and the nintendo ds, sinc thei ar cheaper and easier to creat than consol game.

on develop buck the trend toward big art team is will wright, the creator of the best-sell the sim game. the founder of california's maxi studio surpris the confer with a world exclus preview of hi next game, spore. spore will allow player to experi with the evolut of digit creatur. start with an amoeba-size organ, the player will guid the physic develop of their creatur by select how it limb, jaw and other bodi part evolv.

eventu the creatur will becom capabl of establish citi, trade and fight, and even build space ship. advanc player will visit the home planet of creatur creat by other spore player. these world will be automat swap across the internet. mr wright said that enabl player to devis and share their creatur would make them care more about the game. "i don't want to put the player in the role of luke skywalk or frodo baggin - i want them to be georg luca or dr seuss," explain mr wright. few game have hint at the scope of spore, but mr wright explain that he ha nevertheless kept hi develop team small by hire expert programm. instead of emploi lot of artist to creat 3d model of the digit creatur, spore gener and displai the creatur accord to rule devis by the programm. "the thing i am come awai with [from the confer] is that next gener content is go to be realli expens, and creat it will drive the smaller player out of the market," said mr wright. "i'd like to offer an altern to that."

new develop tool will be anoth import aid in make next gener game, and dozen of compani demonstr their latest product at the confer.

oxford-base natur motion launch endorphin v2.0, which enabl artist to direct a 3d 'virtual actor'. the actor is realist model accord to the law of physic. endorphin simul how the actor fall down stair, for instanc, or crumpl up after a gunshot. artist can blend togeth these visual sequenc, and includ the result in their game. the process is much quicker than have an artist anim each movement by hand, and so lessen the need for larger art team. anoth british compani aim to reduc the workload of artist is manchest start-up genem. it latest tool, gencrowd, enabl artist to creat uniqu, photo-realist human face for game involv lot of peopl. gencrowd work by blend togeth element of an in-built suppli of stock face of differ ag and ethnic. the softwar can creat up to 2,000 new head an hour.

on area not yet domin by graphic blockbust is mobil phone game. even the latest phone ar not as power as the consol of a decad ago, so smaller team of half a dozen peopl can still creat complet game for the devic.

the game develop confer includ a special two-dai summit dedic to creat mobil game. a nich attract for a few dozen confer attende when it began five year ago, gdc's mobil summit thi year drew sever hundr deleg. mobil game ar a fast-grow sector becaus newer phone have better graphic and sound, and ar thu more suitabl for plai game. furthermor, the adopt of mobil phone continu to spread across the world. it's predict that by 2006 two billion peopl will own a mobil phone. the grow import of mobil game wa reflect by a keynot given by john batter, gener manag at ea mobil. ea mobil is a divis of electron art, the biggest game publish. until recent electron art had been dismiss of game for phone. "the last time you check, ea wasn't in thi busi," mr batter admit. but he said ea now plan on domin the market by releas mobil version of it most popular franchis. ea plan to releas up to 20 mobil game over the next 12 month. the first will be a version of it need for speed race game, creat by ea mobil's 30-person develop team. mr batter predict that by 2006, mobil phone would be capabl of run game of compar qualiti to those on soni's upcom psp handheld consol.

owain bennallack is the editor of develop magazin.
