bt program to beat dialler scam

bt is introduc two initi to help beat rogu dialler scam, which can cost dial-up net user thousand.

from mai, dial-up net user will be abl to download free softwar to stop comput us number not on a user's "pre-approv list". inadvert download by surfer, rogu dialler ar program which hijack modem and dial up a premium rate number when user log on. thousand of uk dial-up user ar believ to have been hit by the scam. some peopl have face phone bill of up to £2,000. bt's modem protect program will check number that ar diall by a comput and will block them if thei have not been pre-approv, such as nation and net servic provid number. icsti, the uk's premium rate servic watchdog, said it had been look for compani to take the lead in initi. "the initi ar veri welcom," a spokesperson from icsti told the bbc new websit. "we ar veri pleas to see thei ar put into place new measur to protect consum."

the second initi bt announc is an earli warn system which will alert bt custom if there is unusu activ on their phone bill. if a bill rise substanti abov it usual daili averag, or if a call is made to a suspect number, a text or voic alert will be sent to the user's landlin phone. as part of the clamp-down on rogu dialler, compani must now satisfi stringent condit, includ clear term and condit, inform about how to delet dialler and respons for custom refund. ani firm run a dialler without permiss can now be close down by icsti. the watchdog brought in the action last octob follow a decis to licens all compani which want to oper legitim premium rate dialler servic.

there ar legitim compani who offer servic such as adult content, sport result and music download by charg a premium rate rather than by credit card bt said it had plough an enorm amount of effort into protect peopl from the problem. it ha alreadi bar more than 1,000 premium rate number and ha tri to rais public awar about the scam. "we now want to ensur there ar even stronger safeguard for our custom, who we would urg to make us of these new option to protect themselv," said gavin patterson, group manag director for consum the arm of bt. both scheme have been undergo trial in ireland, and will be made avail to 20 million bt custom from mai.
