be care how you code

a new european direct could put softwar writer at risk of legal action, warn former programm and technolog analyst bill thompson.

if it get it wai, the dutch govern will conclud it presid of the european union by push through a controversi measur that ha been reject by the european parliament, lack major support from nation govern and will leav million of european citizen in legal limbo and face the possibl of court case against them. if the new law wa about border control, defenc or even the new constitut, then our tv screen would be full of expert agonis over the impact on our daili live. sadli for those who will be directli affect, the controversi concern the patent of comput program, a topic that mai excit the blogger, campaign group and technic press but doe not obsess middl britain. after all, how much fuss can you gener about the direct on the patent of comput-implement invent, and the wai it amend articl 52 of the 1973 european patent convent? yet if the new direct is nod through at the next meet of on of the eu's ministeri council, as seem like, it will allow program to be patent in europ just as thei ar in the us. mani observ of the comput scene, includ myself, think the result will be disastr for small compani, innov programm and the free and open sourc softwar movement. it will let larg compani patent all sort of idea and give legal forc to those who want to limit their competitor' us of realli obviou idea.

in the us you cannot build a system that store custom credit card detail so that thei can pai without have to re-enter them unless amazon let you, becaus thei hold the patent on "on-click" onlin purchas. it is a small invent, but amazon made it to the patent offic first and now own it.

we ar rel free from thi sort of thing over here, but perhap not for long. the new propos go back to 2002, although argument about patent of softwar and comput-implement invent ha been go on sinc at least the mid-1980s. thei have come to a head now after a year in which propos were made, endors by the council of minist, radic modifi by the european parliament and then re-present in their origin form. some nation govern seem to be awar of the problem. poland ha reject the propos and germani's main polit parti have oppos it, but there is not enough opposit to guarante their reject. earli in decemb the british govern held a consult meet with those who had comment on the propos. scienc minist lord sainsburi went along to listen and outlin the uk posit, but accord to those present, it wa embarrass to see how littl the minist and hi offici actual understood the issu concern.

the draft direct is be put through the council as what is call an "a" item and can onli be approv or reject. no discuss or amend is allow. so why should we be worri? first, there is the abus of the democrat process involv in disregard the view of the parliament and abandon all of their carefulli argu amend. thi goe to the heart of the european project, and even those who do not care about softwar or patent should be worri. if coder ar treat like thi todai, who is to sai that it will not be you tomorrow?

more directli, onc softwar patent ar grant then ani programm will have to worri that the code thei ar write is infring someon els's patent. thi is not about steal softwar, as code is alreadi protect by copyright. patent ar not copyright, but someth much stronger. a patent give the owner the right to stop anyon els us their invent, even if the other person invent it separ. i have never, to my shame, manag to read lord byron's child harold's pilgrimag. if it wa point out that on of my articl contain a substanti chunk of the poem then i could defend myself in court by claim that i had simpli made it up and it wa coincid. the same doe not hold for a patent. if i sit down thi afternoon and write a brilliant graphic compress routin and it happen to be the same as the lzw algorithm us in gif file, then i am in troubl under patent law, at least in the us. coincid is no defenc. the propos direct is support by mani of the major softwar compani, but thi is hardli surpris sinc most of them ar us-base and thei have alreadi had to cope with a legal environ that allow patent. thei have legal depart and, more crucial, patent of their own which thei can trade or cross-licens with other patent holder.

even thi system break down, of cours, as microsoft found out last year when thei initi lost a case brought by eola which claim that internet explor (and other browser) infring an eola patent. that on wa eventu thrown out, but onli after month of uncertainti and million of dollar. but small compani, and the free and open softwar movement do not have ani patent to trade. much of the realli us softwar we us everi dai, program like the apach web server, the gnu/linux oper system and the fearsom popular firefox browser, is develop outsid compani structur by peopl who do not have legal depart to check for patent infring. the damag to softwar will not happen overnight, of cours. if the direct goe through it ha to be written into nation law and then there will be a steadi stream of legal action against small compani and open sourc product. eventu someon will decid to attack linux directli, probabl with some secret fund from on or two larg player. the new direct will limit innov by forc programm to spend time check for patent infring or simpli avoid work in potenti competit area. and it will damag europ's comput industri. we can onli hope that the council of minist ha the integr and strength to reject thi bad law.

bill thompson is a regular comment on the bbc world servic programm go digit.
