us cyber secur chief resign

the man make sure us comput network ar safe and secur ha resign after onli a year in hi post.

amit yoran wa director of the nation cyber secur divis within the us depart of homeland secur creat follow the 9/11 attack. the divis wa task with improv us defenc against malici hacker, virus and other net-base threat. report suggest he left becaus hi divis wa not given enough clout within the larger organis.

mr yoran took up hi post in septemb 2003 and hi first task wa to get the cyber secur divis up and run. the organis had a staff of about 60 peopl and a budget of about $80m (£44.54m). the divis wa charg with think up and carri out action to make us network more impervi to attack and disrupt by the virus, worm and hack attack that have becom commonplac.

in the last 12 month mr yoran oversaw the creation of a cyber alert system that send out warn about big hit virus and net attack as thei occur. the warn also contain inform about how firm and organis could protect themselv against these attack. the cyber secur divis also audit us govern network to discov exactli what wa sit on which network. the next step wa to be the creation of a scan system to identifi vulner that made feder network and machin suscept to attack by malici hacker and viru writer. mr yoran's divis wa also do work to identifi the network and machin that had been broken into by cyber crimin. despit thi success mr yoran left hi post abruptli at the end of last week, reportedli onli give on dai's notic to boss at the depart of homeland secur. "amit yoran ha been a valuabl contributor on cyber secur issu over the past year, and we appreci hi effort in start the depart's cybersecur program," said a depart of homeland secur spokeswoman. some report have suggest that mr yoran felt frustrat by the lack of promin given to work to protect against net-base threat in the wider homeland organis. an attempt by us politician to pass a law to promot mr yoran and rais the profil of hi depart's work is now mire in congress.
