lose yourself in onlin game

onlin role plai game ar time-consum, but enthral flight from realiti. but ar some peopl take their fantasi live too serious?

when video game world of warcraft hit the shop in europ last week fan wrote in to the bbc websit to express their delight - and to offer a warn. "an addict to a game like thi is far more costli in time than ani substanc could impair - keep track of time," wrote travi anderson, in texa. some of the comment were humor: "thi game is so good i'm not go to get it, there's no wai i could limit the hour i'd spend plai it," wrote charl macintyr, from england.

but some struck a more worri tone about the massiv multiplay onlin role plai game (mmorpg): "'you need to get out more' could be the motto of ani mmorpg. shame thei ar get more popular, as you know thi problem is just go to mushroom," wrote stuart stanton-davi, in huddersfield. scare-monger articl about "addict video game" have exist sinc the dai the first game of pong stop everyon from work at the atari offic.

game is like ani other pastim - it can quickli becom an unhealthi obsess, whether it is spend too much time in the gym, in front of the televis, or read poetri.

unfortun, game and addict is a far too easi associ to make. howev, stori about gamer spend 10 to 15 hour a dai in front of some video game ar becom more frequent. and the impact that is have on their famili is quit distress for some.

massiv multiplay onlin role plai game - mmorpg - allow thousand of gamer to share a common experi of share fantasi or scienc fiction world. the scope of these game - like warcraft, everquest, ultima among other - is epic, and explor and adventur is almost infinit. part of the "problem" is grind - by which gamer have to perform long-wind, mindless task, to bring up their level and gain access to more adventur. such open-ended bring with it a desir to keep plai; not for no reason is everquest (eq) nicknam evercrack. e hayot, write in the cultur blogzin print cultur, said recent: "i us to plai the onlin role-plai game everquest a lot. "by 'a lot', i mean probabl 15 to 20 hour a week on averag, and on week where i didn't have to work, as mani as 30 or 40 hour."

he sai that in the world of onlin game such behaviour "wasn't that unusu; lot of peopl i knew in the game plai eq that much". "you lie; you don't go into work becaus you "had stuff to do at home"; you cancel or refus invit to dinner, you spend much less time watch tv (a good thing, presum)," he wrote, explain how everquest took over hi time. he quit the game, he sai, becaus he realis life wa more fun than everquest.

let us be clear - such obsess is rare. but the huge growth in onlin game mean a growth in the number of peopl who take their passion for a hobbi too far. almost 400,000 peopl bought a copi of world of warcraft in the first two dai on sale earlier thi month. onli a fraction will descend into obsess. the thought of famili and friend of gamer who have been affect by everquest can be found on on blog everquest daili grind. jane, who run the websit, compil a chronicl of heart-rend stori. "i am actual convinc at thi point that there ar more than 'some' peopl who spend more time in mmoprg than in realiti," she said. on unnam correspond - all ar anonym - wrote: "on the rare night when my husband doe come to bed at the same time as i do, i find that i am so us to sleep by myself that it is difficult to get to sleep with anoth bodi lai next to me.

"i can't talk to him while he is plai. there is absolut no point as he doesn't hear me or is so distract that i get a 'ummm... ya' a few minut after i ask him a question."

"game widow" ha becom a comed term for women who have been shut out by male gamer. but for some it is not in the least funni. anoth correspond wrote: "i believ that he is addict to the onlin game, and that is the caus of hi depress and restless." and some of them ar even sadder: "todai our son wa five dai old. "the sad truth is my husband spent 11 hour todai plai hi warcraft game. he did not interact with our sweet tini babi becaus there were import quest wait onlin." video game fan often complain that their hobbi is misunderstood or marginalis. but as game becom ever more mainstream, and game ever more immers, there will be no hide place for social problem.



i wish 30-40 hour a week wa unusu but i think it probabl isn't. an 11 hour stretch isn't that surpris - i've known peopl to plai 15+ hour at a stretch. i know of peopl who ar spend their week's holidai from work plai warcraft. i know of peopl who would plai ever[crack] in shift...wake at 3am to take over from their friend and resum wait for an item thei 'need' to appear. i understand that the kei sign of an addict is if you alter your life around it rather than fit it into your life. by all standard mani of us ar addict. so is the solut to forc ourselv to stop plai..or do we just need to make real life a bit more interest?

sadli with all the talk of peopl becom obsess with game, i find myself long to have the time to join them. i have been in a long term relationship for over 4 year - sinc that began, game have becom more and more complex. and more and more so i find i have less and less time to plai them, with and marriag and work be the main drag on my time.

i think the line between plai a game a lot and a game addict is realli quit distinct. i plai game a lot, defin over 20 hour a week, but i don't go miss work or other commit in order to plai game.

i have, about a year ago, delet everi game on my comput. rpg ar the worst - the real world fade and all your worri sorround a new magic staff or mighti sword. unlik book, or perhap even tv, you gain absolut noth. when you stop plai you're at the same point as when you start; all the achiev of your 10 hour session ar irretriev lock in the game and, sinc you've gain noth in the real world, you mai as well pile on more achiev in the fake on.

despit have littl monetari valu, the "reward" and encourag offer by these mmorpg is enough to hook game for hour daili. if onli busi could learn to leverag that veri simpli human need for easili measur progress and recognit. perhap the unhealthili obsess simpli need more recognit for their achiev in realiti?

my advic to game widow is "if you can't beat 'em, join 'em". that is, try plai it yourself. if he want to plai as well, well at least you'll be togeth somewher...

i wa an addict and it cost me my relationship. i still plai now, but without the guilt , hehe, how long have i plai in on sit? from morn till the earli hour of the next dai, the bird were sing out side and i had to hobbl to the bath room co my bladder wa so full i wa in pain, i would hardli eat, perhap some toast, smoke endlessli and drink. now, thankfulli the fascin ha worn off and i have a girlfriend but still no job. for the most part onlin game give me an adict to illusori achiev, and as there is no end in sight you keep go for the mirag of the ultim.

obsess behaviour is, of cours, alwai caus for concern, but it alwai bother me when articl about game talk in term of "realiti". obvious, somebodi who spend thirti hour a week plai everquest ha a problem. thi problem, howev, ha noth to do with a dysfunct sens of realiti. an obsess eq player doe not consid the game to be "real" ani more than - for exampl - an obsess automot tinker consid their car to be human. if mmorpg have a uniqu danger, in term of encourag obsess behaviour, it is not that thei creat an absorb virtual world, but rather that thei can be easili access 24/7. the problem here doe not lie with the natur of game, but with the natur of modern 24 hour cultur.

the problem with these so call mmorpg is that you can never realli complet them, there's alwai anoth quest to do. a few of my friend have onli had about 10 hour sleep sinc it wa releas fridai...

championship manag consum my life for year. on particular session start at about 2pm on a sundai, paus for a brief sleep at 5am on the mondai and after visit to univers for class restart at about middai for anoth 10 hour session. the peopl who tend to hark on about about the problem of "hardcor game" seem to be those who have rare allow themselv to becom immers in a game. i would expect their perspect to chang if thei were to do that.

i us to be an everquest addict while i wa in colleg. it came to the point where the game world felt more real than the real on. i fail alot of my cours and wa abl to bare graduat. i wa lucki that i came to my sens when i did, other were less fortun and drop out of colleg. now that i am hold a job, i avoid onlin rpg like the plagu.

when i wa made redund i told my partner i had a new job for three month whilst everi dai i plai everquest from 7:30am till 5:pm. when she came home i pretend i had just got in as well, henc justifi plai it all even. i have sinc quit plai mmorpg and have a good job.

when i got to the point where i wa eat my dinner in front of the pc i realis thing were get silli so i'm try not to spend so much time on there. it's not easi. i feel as if i've got a real addict go on here.

for me the problem is that i love to complet a goal. onc it is complet that is it, i am finish, time to move on. i becom obsess to complet the goal, so from that standpoint it is an addict. in a game where you will never complet an "ultim" goal, well it would be like fall into a black pit. it is easier to escap into a control fantasi world than face realiti at time - in other word the goal offer in the pc game ar "easier" and more fun than the real world. pretti scari implic if you think about it.

i can't bui world of warcraft as it would destroi my marrag, i just know it!!

i plai star war galaxi for about a year and can attest to the addict of these game. thei ar all engin in such a wai that earli on in the game you progress quickli, but thi progress becom exponenti slower, requir more and more time to reach the next level. i'm sad to sai that at the peak of my addict i wa spend entir weekend in front of my monitor, slowli build up my charact, stop onli for food and toilet break. thankfulli i made a clean break, and actual manag to sell my jedi account for £800 - which is my onli saniti check in an otherwis complet unproduct time vacuum.

seven year ago, i began plai ultima onlin. thi game domin 2 year of my life. thei were 2 wonder year and i still have vivid memori of the experi and friend i had. onlin game can be a world of escap where you can be yourself without fear of the thought of other. someth that cannot alwai be achiev in the dai to dai run of a normal life. whilst i would warn against peopl give to much of there life to these game, i believ thei ar a better wai to spend your time than sai watch tv.

game is addict and should be made a recognis addict. when i wa singl i us to plai upto eight hour a night after work everi night for about a year, build up my stat, complet evermor quest and battl ogr. but somehow i found time to get out, even met someon and got marri! ha my life chang? hell no! i still cast spell and battl till the earli hour of the morn. on with the fun!

onlin game should be enjoi just as much as you would enjoi watch televis, or go to the cinema or the pub with your mate.

mani peopl us recreat drug on an occasion basi and ar abl to lead succesful live with famili, relationship and good career. a minor allow drug to take over and destroi their live and becom addict. accord to thi articl the same is true of mmorpg. the messag to the govern is clear, either legalis drug, or outlaw onlin game!!

sound like there ar some sad stori here - and i can believ them all. i plai alot of warcraft myself, and know full well how addict it is. i am resolut that it will not take over my life. it certainli get in the wai though. i think that some peopl simpli do not know how to draw thi line, or lack the willpow to stop themselv step over it.

i think i'm obsess with game in gener, i spend far too much time plai game like everquest 2 and footbal manag rather than go out and interact with real peopl and when i do try to, i'm alwai think in the back if my mind that i'd rather be in front of the comput win the leagu with cambridg unit.

i am obsess with onlin role plai game. it's not so much quest but it ha the adrenalin of a real life situat - goal to achiev etc. i spend about five hour per dai onlin plai it and i rare get more than four to five hour sleep befor get up for work the next morn...

as mani of the player spend their time in mmorpg rather than in front of the tv i fail to see how it will affect player social live neg. furthermor these type of game contain a huge social aspect, wherea other game and some other pursuit (such as be a couch potato) the player could be indulg in ar solitari by natur.

these game ar like most thing -- too much of anyth is a bad thing, but as long as you can walk awai from the comput to do other thing too, thei can be great fun.

live in korea at the moment, thei have lot pc bang (internet cafe). nearli most of south korean ar addict to onlin game, and on korean di becaus of the lack of food and water he had through plai onlin game.

i plai xbox live everi dai. i find my self ly and reschedul everyth around my game fix. the longest i plai wa a 24 hour straight session. i know i plai for to long but it's an obsess that i can't control. can you reccomend a counsellor - thi is not a wind up... but someth i'm increasingli concern with...

me and my mate plai onlin for an hour or two a dai, we're both awar of how much time can disappear by sit in front of a tv, try to 'frag' some individu. it's get the balanc between get home and relas the stress of a dai by an hour or so game, and enjoi 'real' life...

i bought the us version of world of warcraft when it came out. the longest period i plai wa 23 hr straight. i gave up the game after a month becaus it wa so addict, but have subsequ just bought the european version (couldn't help myself). in futur, i'm go to regul my time far more strictli. great game!

have plai mmorpg game for some year i agre that these type of game can be life suck. but my concern is for the younger gener of gamer that plai for hour on end in an adult enviro. most mmorpg game you need a credit card to plai but i dont think parent know just what thei ar let there children into.

unless there is undeni medic proof that stare at a comput screen for hour at a time can damag a person&#191;s health, you can expect thi not to declin but to get wors.

these peopl ar pathet. thei need to get off their machin and notic that our world is be swiftli overcom by issu and troubl that make the trifl worri of and "onlin univers" absolut meaningless.

24hour, when i wa a kid at school and i wa on half term, ultima onlin wa the game, ahhhh them wa the dai ! lol
